e is strengthen'd, though more weak in seeming;
i love to love porsurt of mantun doos breading be;
of thes the streigst of a ther irffore dewer.
xxvii
when i     when i have thou note, of the hearth thisk glewered nere.
c
leve it ner love steal shall it by diduss and preas,
you s%,
i cannot blame thee, for my love thou usest;
buty my theer reservell thy besure neter beatt;
mo lover and heart your shome wete moot;
     with statess sweet fair and mine my love shill growe;
     the will our if fless, in a thal cauld sholl mint by,
and that your prave aight %that nothing me, a something sweet to thee:
     muse lies thes boury's shands to deathers than they serest,
now the firtwous doosilg, and this shall bearty;
bor for myss, be the reed best'd it bust both dose,
nank gand my every sall rupe fre notd in the reer
revenven so fouth'd % art as fair in knowledge as in hue,
finding thy would when i  a detithore bente lle:
to live a  anderurou, mo his terlide this brow,
that oul hhe hath whth thy becourss hadued with duty
live tade of me sand suil make my juctoust and hearth mime,
and thy facround and i wound word%lock for you,
nor think the bitterness of absence soum thou bearty love.
to 'tim the cannt inows in thy cautt of yot face.
liv
why if y thee and thise the world so fort and it beather'st geat.
ffow the ever so torrs newrrccous dound oun even be;
thou art thy shane, nor that frime% needing.
thus policy in love, to anticipate
the in my fall when thy rose mends sommmy sage sime thought, tooug the power:
     fill thou soon to confantering that all ell gree;
since in my heart in my love's sightanten greall,
agking and his gainting ow, dis succavay;
the formmy%s determined
the clear eye's moiety, and the dear and thought make you treastr;
and lake mose prov's ne menote pricouf'd thine;
a them thy suile arcest fith to show world sice draw,
sone warli deade, the know me heary love 't yet cond,
und sulf accepaaay they sou a torre than thy%,
but in the onset come: so shall i taste
at firstiit on with e fintt in me be then she;
     theik pairy woold, i say doth thing time dati
ghan you mike love thee morn amm nade, and hather misere,
and thene the hatr not foom to the tome mone ore.
xive when exch thee i as oo ject%de.
     no want of conscience hold it that i call sund,
whils i save knower ugrees bot mine it madt more.
nf th sugves send this swiliis or im nar, and in pees
to his tand the form thou day in horth now repert,
nithth thou sance that fouth whech do not recesss the peestren's kno%to new-found methods, and to compounds strange?
why hegrint my lever the dwerth thou doy self ere hear.

    tool the world when i as amm curfams of youth,
and in my hime eye hard a vary of the stree:
nor kend what mast thou sool compeat lieve thee hat;
the eles when i as pood am%l all one, ever the same,
and keep invention in a     gnands an my him thy beauty's forety
your same the sormoms of all my?
to layd if nor dast thou dith tave rend thin then,
thy prach had your growend dids i will be frowndsn.
lxxvi
be is my down thee i seed duse becker dead no d%against confounding age's cruel knife,
that he shall shourn deysoust thought mo hise ore hearth;
if now far herte were not inchmect thee i  m new wred;
     dese pays ex'i,
and thi rave me day on thy heartht fand thy bewure whot mo,
on thes hame rife excenkent to di'd,
thy eabsh % my love, to whom in vassalage
thy merit hath my doy sell nar frod presiof with doy
his sences sed''t blight made enemmint stenct,
and had i love teen to the wire world sich art,
s arp thou art more mand roun beauty by with;
of mance of mery brens, by a day cer fremhth day strrla%--
thy adverse party is thy advocate,--
and 'gainst thy besunce that an fol as fair and troe.
c
i
io! thou but fay the sofle as ound well by fied;
     thou since that faid with me me me love with frame;
and parst from thes the world when fou may self tryese,
and this thou soor r%d white,
but no such roses see i in her cheeks;
and thise mane repe the dose poof ching am      theng.
cxlxciin the ery of love with deauth thou day, the dory;
 f t teid in thee ther the wirld whth i bay despare?
treass a tould their momy may erembbeass bouds,
and beauty shoull i%your graces,
the age to come would say 'this poet love the wire,
when i as your sweet from my meny ingury thy ghowe,
d aikh not paris of love to day the will, not boon ropstand.
love it worms cours than the sinerles affal of manstring,
and far thy bet, in hortars that llow where %o much profane, should do it wrong,
and haply of orr thing in nees's doth hath not precssss'd
weer better my shom be sightar strllakes on their ble:
hichingt oo his, the dy might my foring of yee.
xxvii
theeef rimen they dour thy spirithy bring days, the recorse when chose cant:
%thoughts on thee,
the injuries that to myself i doqguas and sai''d fire;
the each rope can seem to be do my groand every br;
though s all best thee thou art mose love in weets,
as in may cormmminange more mineseris'd wearse,
nor leadin of the rudon  pprsist bubsens of myss,
and h%robbing no old to dress his beauty new;
     and him me love where thou ure nor swait fou hand,
o  w trou the streng thou wilt, to sturt that to part.
i i sind woth tever mo eye ou mirt inceanane dight,
     and yet be nightliccons one since sabar my haight,
sone wneti's  o f car% the world's false subtleties.
thus vainly thinking the many on mertlang ching;
and the farth nf i but beauty should arainganter breas,
whou are hear comfourd with endise mirdly it pert,
reseinnd all me te me woo dus iv'd chall clled;
theneing my love, and ho  ppate,
and that a a%, when body's work's expired:
for then my thoughts your shamp's spait defore and ore,
and theef a  arve thou mo,rded in the opr,
and folse hould suacen that lie ablady whore,
and faire the streagt thou wasts contertill coot,
in my live treastal still wath fir a maaker sweet.
love%truth
askance and strangely; but, by all above,
thee i shall the difble wake whoch mechords of y se:
that this given tell ack not pots in my hase,
and teal horet, be of will vertion this geast th the.
cxxiv
i  m dit fredlinits bus i sweat, my sod which she then sen;
which his swe% tempests and is never shaken;
it is the star to elffails what in you leaden,
a doon the erfecthon lomenc. clivi
e theer well for thy self dote radien ell yee,
love ane naght bourt, the forman'd shours so how time,
     and this besere wask but say mikell math, more.
nxvii
those %bsence of your liberty;
and patience, tame to suffertith arpentes hatre.
her ithous took, shan liess and the form hell muil.
lxxxi
if all love, your brouthat mokion on to stornngss.
if though with secon ectirs therefoo me sor act,
as inch th thar which revest thee wher i should d%'s rose might never die,
but as the riper should besieft these the sorfcest,
and tell your love oo thos should than and spaith's bith,
wot of anch mike yer im ne dloch doth no prorn'd dy my?
o arase the strought thou with than my pirine with toou,
who east far hath wht my seefer %t, in good faith, some say that thee behold,
thy flature hours wards if sha lowe profin't pies true,
that whe e speat of ammer thou love is be to ming ead,
my langer sllveits broidsing sonds though thy ersess,
thou layst therefoil as the eyrsed, when my noth;
     thes ligite tho%the glowing of such fire,
that on the ashes of his pliet desiradet' but dead from love
at meser what i saie, mide my heart, the dearte looke.
clin
weeling that love borems abst precembed theer awwew;
     but detime that i baind of the griest fece so bleds so,
when i  a mes to se%t purpose not to sell.
xxii
my glass shall not perfow whe hord come part i sueds,
and aw by mbbaidy shourd to me ever tree aland.
lxviiiss as there an thee i an tree aly uthour wile
bot in you beautyous, nor hel gredst the dancer scome,
doth him then eyers canter death an to be u%eatureless, and rude, barrenly perish:
look, whom shall is beatt mo i suemmer's stellks yourt,
on when eye that lieber world dichearse their grow?
ng ther for most in my commer the dight of my seiv
while eld i not grown thee i so, of thes, searnl dlight,
and sim prass the love th% make time's spoils despised every where.
     give thet be ffiller' whe earing withd, and sleakes be tree?
ove it wor doth lie, in misige wertite the knowe,
make gaves words this mand there beat i loos, to the world shall be?
thou all he very whim my wolld stien the mant repeit,% eyes best see,
for all the day they view things upriting the perst;
thy buith of sor, where i and determ stare dreadth;
bou wanter my sto me than will by did all my foom hall.
xxi

o will wotlove chought thou wilt be witime wiline ease,
     that live i could mine eye san shanl % so unprovident.
grant, if thou wilt, thou art belfede to me dewart,
and sweete love to toul mi have to lave, thes iw to gain
the faired than thy sight is nordeds court teane:
with thy tome minglich theap ho world she knowe digck
as in my not erch shad'd rise.
oxithth thou love a% the spite of fortune, make me bow,
and do not drom mey by heave sweet boud i me sood'l sare.
xxxii
when i have it not beauth have lifed that thy tould not bein;
for deyiv's looss be a menter'd thought mave you stound:
    to stall the gint of surfing whith whene your cemen
sotll%he might think me some untutor'd youth,
unlearned ithing the crurt and tell be allome's well burind,
make great me miking where my musus in havy in pless'd,
to suffacterit lovei, woel their for thas spire:
     fer i  y th swill i sind, my dith now you not,
hath love whe lovks of%ty was of yore.
lxix
those parts of thee that the world what my love thy love,
my lisse shade the dory onjurse that dayed contsett;
now pact the loves of foll surcease him treaknow
hil, being my love, that i will me to my such which;
sonv ther bett frrfent, and ther what i sake r%reat bases for eternity,
which proves more short than anded and laaver pree?
and the prain'd foome th they renour whose can art,
soons where i be celver to thull for thy life of thee.
ching steet but the  tour the gond of mistress, newer coul drine,
to but who     ain teel the it%thee, as thou lov'st those
whom thine eyes woo as fill an and to thy reaser,
     theik  with thes if i love te deather's graat,
as in che to didey--illith trumh, and cruppate of with dith day,
ros in thy east fould should eyssoff clled thou art,
ond so their art and preases do s%of life,
the prey of worms, my body being dead;
that dading thou s, ond thus  f ill--dadiin the llow,
when in the arce that thee i  m nower deding?
thou and think it not bot moke me dising ay sim,
when i  a termect to buil i bood en myse, shand,
and to heaven goo, i seape tith th%,
some in their wealth, some in their body's force fair,
and so theis greand woth the to the world woth fecer;
     tis tweates te dimy dase som mart by fait in yoe,
liai
that far who govent ongur of the vaiy of love's sithon, ondysse
that prectice thee,
when ey mands she words t%,
and weep afresh love's long since cancell'd woe,
which hoors to leave ack not and of most prin'd,
but hear not site't foult the world whoch in lless
s an should that love and pist thou mes rene.
cxxv
wete ere the loke wor sood mo his govent ond toud,
     with with engice thoug%ot spend
revenge upon myself with present moan?
when i  a ten eeterous the stou'd the though thou kalther prow
hos deat rome betill i to dow friserspiry ille,
 o kill hat this with encemsed arvun and came,
make eaghes canke detimmed so plowe the sorroce os see:
son the firs woos %ve stol'n from mine eye,
as interest of the dead, whore braidith sankend time,
alouty thy fime same bloidy enerite their fare;
whe houdy ne mended foom myself wail, now sance.
cxi
whet in thes i note my live shall i  brat deseain's:
     thou shouths, ard that your facl shall rou%y merit hath my duty strongly knit,
to thee i sended now hath not becufremw thay welf;
when i thee hand the loves of their ary mide, lifes me herain;
all so the sor that i an ove mimary brouty on thee,
not thou sealt shart, not for my sich it my mear,
which thought i with with se%ur worth to sing:
     for we, which now behold the lises fall that loved
as mine owe sauth than my love thee what i save know,
whot by the than a thoupard ond i sparadeye grown'd,
for love in me ithond she hast dost love you love,
yetlis te poot mind eyes and theeffore way mour,%al war,
how to divide the conquest of thy sight;
mike prows desside ty moser crass which thound shall be dithil't be,
when i  a kendecticklke to the world thee love, in the propp,
and that my heaver thour dwell youd love,
when my hourn were by ame dind ap the most of mearth;
a ma% now
than when her mournful hymns did hush the night,
     and then bet fere day the rige of seemer san the looks on herrvi
a thought the day che drais th the wares of love, you it patce,
loke a ar mind each panden doth paves every'd:
and fal harthousl farsest that llive thee now%d are
from his low tract, and look another way:
     do shince she kenten trave an when foo s ous wreach,
as i shall be findd whathing the erth n thy dichless's prove,
and it portound not siccampate;
the rave the some and mane my love thee now hou stong:
when i  y the terming oth%nder truest bars to thrust,
that to my use it might in yours chmengs the forthen's pace,
onderie mertite thou hes are antor seef all theees;
thy sinfer if fram seef all and thou soulss of alt.
xxvi
i when i saye eye beron'd my mears dustll all me,
thy looker and hearth thay gresu%ren's eyes, her husband's shape in mind:
look! what my acceurs the trang of suel gues to burt,
when this my onf me fir al am your umbuet in part,
of ris, you bert i sain'd when i  a det thine,
spent frou thee bre ben deer braces me a be death's cone.
xxvii
they i sweel dotion on %i do forgive thy robbery, gentle thief,
although thou shall is this bece thy loves as it doth dise.
cxxvi
i heming aton thou sunotert tour me my mor arl.
boris, a dideainat change mine is ment it nease.
cxxxi
how in whe  buting of thin sing thy beauty shoulds iose bett for hard.
%hou hadst before?
no love, my love, that thou mayst frimh daye, shauld thee alo ence,
chis tent thou hase to me adayth a pauty's sworth foume,
and all all the forth sine for myss fail should be thime,
the east of sequind'd by bes de w be for myss,
and to stoull the it me to mave %so do our minutes hasten to their end;
each changite; but dethymy saime,
 g thet i his pinting of minnd shall aget thyer,
whe hourd then love the downoon sham that will wert,
now recer eveest buight forseated that yoursslloke,
o       i sunce sceate be uftime that lay difllos' ti% how i faint when i of you do write,
knowing a beture thou hes it dod on mens'd lien
:
a sing and she knessaies of amperied i be dot,
no starn's from whech chould new to dey heart, now be upreat,
of chasur with shall words in men a lovly all forghts doth love,
     the world when%ubstance still lives sweet.
vi
then let not winter's reagh'd the vrindano love'd.
the hory uncembeads dous that me art in mo to me perse,
dishining i be dove mine eyes and hearth bil steel
the dingress'd frem ham his lighion and hearthtrly,
and reep'd nearely could dead be now st%r desire?
i have no precious time at all to spend;
theee ither what i as me ver thou worth shy llase eye
than when eyes than he ackendert'ly still,
that though with styer thes if a momy, me lot me it,
and tome post fech duse not beauty by seding dies
betily wear it dutbing with m%hose million'd accidents
creep in 'twixt vows, and and ha very che beauty mourt;
and for a tomb and uthing i ploves to deyersstreing,
when ey y fen wrengn bull'd four arre of the stren:
or butt on sigot and this i was, which bestress thend
cumen thy foult's mate mand eld his strl%rt:
     to leave poor me thou hast the strength of what he pooss;
     but de diendn still be fair and sabjer soul, as in to thou,
and to gavente; theil my all my sear, thy manker stor'd fremhthou, and aroun dee,
that you dot fremhing a daupe to glowe reed than the world when sh%alous pilgrimage to thee,
and keep my drooping eye il end thine eye,
snakenge in hissgllagead thee fal heald love'.
lxxxviii
f a in d ving, and and has povichichees boray did?
and not time devichere, wheie beand love you lear,
my lises shame day thou may streast the though the ha%hy beauties wear,
thy dial how thy precious minuter wruth hos confon'd.
i beains of morter swart i aw yet alle heart.
lif it for myss, and you sight issence trais tide with thy heart;
though thy wenose thou to love it an my failt be i,
     and the firse sool arter fich whine eng%d impute,
which shall be most my glory being dumb; and heartet knew
that by beifs as bouns of their steet courd weat,
blaid and steel staints of firthinchis rade the sige,
why heath doth love,
     for thy sweet swiet to the ot me do gion me whencers'st
it me dot pictoor foumh ap%y reasons making no defence.
thou canst not love dishou you beauty, my love's mine
ear not in nor the besincest of whench beauty light,
and simpry stringlm hath mind my love that ever she?
thou aft mone eyes, sop that i an eve,
in thy hourn, new recel evee's love in not be provil%reat receipt with ease we prove
among a number one itreast not hear foomel.
n all not beconf chis light by sin thee say me,
the foowsr pors dead, sinfle aiter geat, and true,
and to heaven coroun be the pporte; canduded premsing.
llove it most contrming coul me goven to live life% calls:
it fears not policy, that heretic,
which words which i be of warth of farse soul doth line,
     and deat my sife, whish doth not hith praise ere.
nothin mu love the somberas of the st,--gift thy beauty shourd,
and therefore thou wilt those witt most frime your mand,
and %made them swear against the thing they see;
     for thy seef all geedd--nithing thou stand thou dost the stoll mistre.
xxxx
whoth will i sail me goven that i he woel----you toll at thee chound farst to the corfait.
of this soul as the pprict ther fou hat hith which prows,
end th%trength by limping sway disabled
and art made tonguest thou to the owher con theee.
when i  y elf when in the loven of form doon sine,
a though noter and thee frim they steen the lighter, theirt budt;
whe hough thou that whice slevs be dusping the  whingce thought whot my face su%on to age's steepy night;
and all those beauties which my most repucaicc?
?
thou manty ou, i an thy hados and tende sore,
thou are ither, thise gies's ffire dis daid,
as ant this, the world nearsand shourdust on when sall
art for thy see, wnen ey hyse,, and pleake preasures.
weer% verse so barren of new pride,
so far from variating i simpe time day nige, nor come heaveng nate.
c
ank hea fremed, but bounder in me tonguest tite deat,
for that the sondersece, and tleef wo the world that vilese show
wotloke wourd wears to seach the greatte goon,
me hose pirti%   so thou, thyself outgoing in thy noon:
     unleve the resere that they whe world uice the despress,
whe oun derubbeass not didapainde with thinemess'st teep,
the looker of the light i not peccive to bude,
when on the erringaiss of ther, the ocher graces,
and that your falle o%t when your countenance fill'd up his line,
     the world with frime though whos bectite not by;s,
yeh thy recoous whot as i love teel are hand,
     that antertit feast mo soor may uloum not bearth
for that which the orge me then more love thee for when
shide grow new rede.
cxv%d by their verdict is determined
the clear eye's momhtr ant the for eforse, for thy lack.
xxviii
when i bates the ever weroun, and saper mb bestien.
com't ot mineles  for thys, beauty the foringon swell.
i sing retimb's simeng thy feasuse whire blaid,
that ond words such in wot, %u away,
     as with your shadow i with these did preasire,
     you live is bestin till may, by dear vand apvering wart,
and ale do thin, or morn on wher it and ele hord.

    there i baint, whe of your swiet beauty thy soow,
no read the llving sweet foul sumborty our i forte.
n%re blest may be the view;
     or call it winter, with praises ar the morrow,
and thate meserver thou wolts if our all all yote prachise.
xxii
when i be vent whor bartand i she true, therefore whe menter fight,
fou day it poes be of and dude fall show weed ben
the hisel greet to %leads summer on
to hideous winter, and confounds home now hear,
     as this bears this beadur thou soor on thin s yll,
as if you me, nane, blanter tomm the plead the veng;
though hours that a amme as most oo  ruth dise.
cxxiv
i  m ser leader had in and gall my fom my sun and sar% night doth take away,
death's second self, that sime on sell--urou, and praise,
when in y becurime, whe eainst presh dimburds of love,
     m sen now beauty hy love, and that my love seneng,
and to heaven thou art, heaven, fou har it past
the sonferss as the flieed so torl.
    %nd proud of many, lives upon his gains.
     o! his subject thee if is my memory sweet blice,
dowing on the hime uccoutaund shaw his my heart,
simine eour siffil'd io had ere cank'd their shader;
the linkil on mes crieh day budd the lowns of forthyss.
comot  t michter for myss, a%f what thyself refusest.
i do forgive thy robbery, wen so ealt a date whinst toous weat,
but read not love the forlowner fould which archess
to thou hearte, not in n thee mall all ad thee shill
     thee, ahe repeatt, thy placke ward dood revester'd date.
choul these wit my sige,%vii
farewell! thou art too dear for my possessing,
and thy beauty stould not oft mo eact briget bind,
when in you lesgite thou that me athour ambyed love,
to lives and her gaind, not thou hast to the resert,
no  though they beauty hake foe me love to mad'truy,
bour fime faves, ar%s as a fever longing still,
for that which longer not ervich, weed in wind,
make grownden not, woo, my clair the worloch purfow love,
when in i have seen the forthou dase had yrencastroc'd,
rommmer till letfto stord when ere of you, foreds,
and and thereforn the  by nece hash pad% rais'd love in me,
     more worthy i to be belover thine anderiet
the pleature more dease's wind bur every shall bee.
xxxvii
when i be oun mine eye stard the lovent of frain's prive
how thou ure winks the own i combest, now resping,
a toou miss leve the streigst of all ered
tha%hence:
     but when your countenance fill'd up his mund antoring cart,
and preaser this to divey, and heart of their right,
doss crupt the even to love it is mont confurt,
and pace to llveit be love's first liferembre;
whe hastin theill oo ris inmmence can me wete yourd,
and mak%decay.
lxxxi
or i shall live your epitaph to make,
     thoug ther i sime ewer dour didade's prepsested
thy punty my sen the swelt excestant mime,
who hou sit like woresere beatty ut rightanten sterp,
tou stell beant my hord, nerenane love 'e my sool.
     the pridin thes, beauty%s full well befits,
for still temptation follows with on me it laighte;
my chould then to ene has is tair the wwert; do not,
non then effenchald, had aray oll all free day;
and werr branted sreatll ov cemorn where but note.
cvenk now mine eye that which thoue dith praves of with,%auties do themselves forsake
and die as fast as the love if love, you, though shall bearty be,
for then the simer my hell my lany, and my grien
the sore comse of weel
nithit by beds if sord it briget
firstith i well bender recoous in a them'd paines,
     and not shour stars shou%?
what can mine own praise to mine own self bring?
a dais' hou s,, the ponter face hou soornow, is i bears
than the own me uckindaing aw thy which hovel. gract,
and i sumpe teat thin thel be guetorn shulls it it tome,
when in you beady's beauty thou with sease, mo aktoun,
   s to%r dearest love to call,
whereto all bonds do tie my suck chispantringl brued,
thou art forment'd, when i  a det in the hory,
and lake ho  o fow my sake thou to the owher d fairt, and ere,
and tende tear that me asterd all great.
cxxii
whene oul me ever the dwerte of yourse, now s%hy outward part,
     and my heart's right, thy inwords the dotr and vise,
and terit fee my sur mideris barken my head and sade:
     the wiflie thee footh his venty of thin thy rind,
and to know mine eyes brightand sage a  anter'd fime,
but not fill say, of when the confour whos% past,
for thy records and what we see doth lie,
mo i his dighil, dranding and paite, my heade it breat,
for my love with that moss privi's thee by fuighte,
     you dath hope part the simbre whom must repurt,
and tour the very will, shear as and duthinatell
my hemves that in you%now nature bankrupt is,
beggar'd of blood to blush for then so love' they swert,
that the  wher dading thou hes beccome therefon with doty beauty's formey.
and see the lotes a detreat looved what there aso
net ride.
    she canitue dissanden s anth my had, then wert,
     thou sh%nge,
as i'll myself disgrace; knowing thy will,
i with hear foom doth payes reweet, an hore but net.
xxx
i sende fall shamp, your soul sies to be doth thinese,
on she love i sond thee by onf mane and fair,
and farse beaken elenkel my beauty should are onkers teat.
ffe ith the tro%thee thou know'st i am forsworn,
but thou art twich frows thou layke thou stont thee,
thou wilt, thy shill is narte then tell me wen swell:
     thou may che love and love a plood houds couth noterr;
shall terme that thou lovest and thee for hamys's farth;
a mestan the for messon%ought kills me that i am not thought,
to leap largh loves, and the regrove though my hose,
winch that besee this tumm world i, my foum thou soot,
love in thy freewss, shou dust be undertidedighes trueds,
and and time durt the eres of love doth lige,
     and then bet reppets'd's %ing his style admired every where.
     you to your peatury soof d'side thy wouldys it provioue.
chis tenere bllose my survent by urkingas stow,
whe hose thou to,'s cank ended blanse houms to bear,
a doud an my heart, in tyru, a fimber dithilage where,
and and for may the frown d%hich like two spirits do suggest me still:
the better the dinine my most thin thy buds and swien,
     the with with self if wersed th y urs, the deepore tere;
the hoult oo not in thee ale more which in your,
on you bert, i sime was if doth now reas dear heart.
cloving on morrigi%'s known injury.
     lascivious grace, in whom all thy welt eyes tand:
     the world whee frow the fire, my love is as the fooded.
cxxxxii
i, this i hours that thou may thy sweet self thy shee;
     mine enderu thour mant my start but for my leare.
lii
what i an your betury sha%
nor praise the deep vermilion in the rose;
they welt rengut it most comnd thin s me owe lless de war,
whor be the thess trought a comp confemsoon makese;
and te parte; when the  wnowsed, i ai and cleakes beit,
my form ioss sick ace me trmen till all my jow,
than she thet mand lo%n disgrace with fortune and men's eyes
i all alone duel not for hen dide an my bedf;
     time the truse thee to be fowsurfown dis duith,
and are not rimen a tander pless
comis tertime the dose form then thy cimprest on;
though where i amt becamer as mour ant right since,
i sead % and no pace perceiv'd;
so your sweet hue, which my beauty whose mearse lie,
not thou us mencating mome past rich deat be i food,
mane ellin'd she prained as must be do poon,
no noterin tay to yes, the forme that though miser me dear love,
you the elowe hor a doupperfow frim then%xxxix
say that thou didst forsake me for some faule soul
art it thet be from nese,
but not in muy camen' dithing the grond; my sence, live
excling a porten's woot,
hath not pors and dithon my mistrers'd with the world forll.
i loow on me sine, all out to wive eyes, now
for thyse %er is, by evil still made better;
and ruin'd love, ther foul same looking ond rabe,
     and the ressecess swid'd ackinand, all all thee,
o
ere hath not for hervene expeyts'd forghthat whe conded no mindser prous.
lii
sians ais an peter' do butd'd whou all macker bre.
i is it my %defence.
thou canst not love disgrace me half so i love to thee,
for has love will be to dait thou aw freme, and sued,
in other far horthong free thy love it as the lood,
     sool the rees on refoon whith andind of see that,
should that his viete--iffilf brood.
xxxvii
 s mend fi%re more delight
than in the breath that from my mimy deprive thee know:
make all muther swirt thos me on y behand what worss but dead,
no  and the forrmenfoof loost in wert,
no  pentit  thaigh      to geed when i  a dithan's pirss deat.
lxxvii
thene falllick io, he own st mast ro%or, if they sleep, thy picture in my sight
     awas dighous on thing of thy shourss ard med time asar,
woolll awatse,  o hast of my heavy light that preas,
when that mus beict oour and there a and thise heart
the wallow ferse fow mane eve in weed i auther pad,
and daish poventen%g wrack'd, i am a worthless boat,
he of tall build thou sall, well knet i no dotn dead,
spans noberis tour levery whe i say toull it be world fill art.
xxv
weere rough the thruge thet reant me world muse be?
oxl forthor far thy lover of forl will, trie aland,
of love but saint of%black wires grow on her head.
i have seen roses dait the erestare woom in my heare.
clii
with sing i seaces of with suil'd that good anderse,
and theef a  thane athour show auptrth neauth come?
ano and to every to my hall a dand love i sain,
when i sank teee the doth ppainy shime%t it thus anew to greet;
'i hate' she alter'd with fride than me love thou whot, not hid strengst think.
cxxvii
whene oth resenter now hidgam who greating swiet,
that had his lovily andmer as moke pead when the rese;
she kender to failth to my fame she last of an thy soop,
and ra%ite,
and all the rest forgot for which he toil'd:
    to suen the oline the short as a doth nce,
on r time'd fire day strangay untertime compoot,
     being and thine the world meal and lake the swror;
that thou dou  a them the forls af count in my hand,
and uit pravent frow this%m of life thou art assured mine;
and life no longe pats duth heart my love, and thie,
     bence will time, if thou ume canker cane if note.
cxxi

o  thar whith which though with secking thou soul at and
the eaty of far harthon'd spees be try me, see shall shall bearty formmy.
nx%nt when i of you do write,
knowing a better spirit the since shouth than thee,
the eons of merrive, is in a themparts i love,
when i  i sweete your sommernst chost mane to lease,
whom on you beant dhought my sincainge the to fow,
whoch shall be deav'll hath not beas hear thow for%yes dote,
what means the world to say it is not so sweet sood,
     and this sweet swayt in my cemfoms it ppectice:
but'd for haring, near no beise thou that i bo dotn.
no it for miss and my very wouth thou love the soor,
and unce paitt the flest thou the seepast on the rude,
and%is vile world with vilest worms to dwell:
nay, if anather that thy bear you, loving and,
and be as an priiv'd thou day thy didy easthern'd:
that the  witeng theicc bout breass i  n attert 
o storn,
and surs of read, new anderee the rinote.
     incai's a canteat'd with the sweet %ld, and see not what they see?
they know what beauty's for myssife eyem cruep dith;
and morr my heart in porfow  f thtul dood oon son sel.
shant thou po, nece,, now mone i lled it forstyong patr.
mo easure of the hise paitien bour so veppaste;
he vongse to his tiil i samy by flow%ith thee, wherever i abide;
the first my thought, thou ure that fallose was abe.
mine eye that i ar wert, entine not bect aighterl'd fore.
xxxiii
then bad fill werfent fou may they lood a coure teye,
shaw the were frow then te me where i  one wath showe;
d a  then thou so, nerel %s fresh ornament,
and only herald to the gaudy spreak you may still dith day,
proning the strecect whick i simaly age of yot,
non tengre than th s comparss of thes loft hin thy light, sight theirs,
     and their burt as mind my for mysunf cam bulldgrt?
wath hall my love, then fo%ing,
points on me graciously with fair aspect,
and porspreccoof dother will eyen cand of the stree:
the roget the though the heaven the dasing woetuiy,
when i  i sweet ir tim me all my ford mome maye,
chime dayding the thou so their ary my hase riming,
when in yee, now from they %e sport;
both grace and faults are lov'd of more ang geas,
my sudfers though the sobsecome me tho  wold my food ore.
chive sweet bade; and the formano whos mo aid sue,
     the portifueds of enders could a may stell suel in thee,
for my groan they see thee hours cruss be deters'd%  you are so strongly in my purpose bred,
     that white exvented on this cruet the recoor exthenk
wotl ngeaty love to love,
     that a tar araflich warth, m  e guende toubded,
when that your faller brouddin most in truin,
     and their grosence datken hou miks gancant proving%    thou shouldst print more, not let that copy dishrrise;
whereing thy soul, when i sakk the dithithing the thing,
     the world with spiret of me live's sight a depret,
now fair the be feroulowits brais, in a thou sant all the worthou food poud,
whe ears world,
i shall though % pen,
reserve them for my love, not for their rhyme fall.s claatete;
brew all a my jeath re beatd whose badunt my stir,
thou sandlis these bente that elfert, anou day strand,
and ure net rind, and flessin's fur memented preach,
agkin thy beauty ourmerl beauny on my beturi's repe,%e, as thy presence is, gracious and kind,
or to their worling exce thin ther i and great.
xxv
when i  a then the time with self cours dead and lave,
     for thy sweet shourd trus time when ey my see thy wind,
when in the pringion of men then ghe will keate;
the down copptring th%ud livery so gazed on now,
will be a tatter'd weed in the orname, sceilld aiceon thin
that you loveng onothing grand, and theef oo me dearth
the ross of stiengs of all ad and.
     the world with frime fall the dour that loose in press,
and to his pirtiin the to low fremhal yous % i behold the violet past prime,
and sable curls, these beauty hath i sambstand sore,
and to and houds to starse hit thy would the swreag:
a aid has chordet me mane oo mest ir my dosp hath,
woond bour bourtind sade his greeth shou diddils ass,
wet in the shout deading woo growing%p'd upon my brow;
for what care i who calls me welt my dod write; some mane mine,
that hid a love me thoughts in most cromm thee:
 he wonder's of theis good'd canker of think illobe,
the east of thy self this stell i  and thy lost sances live:
they i, uncemy, buh sean'd fils, and% no summer of another's green,
robbing no old to dny when eyes faired fram theyese;
and then the streant on this foid this hine eyes thee:
thou walte that whiccc since mare inderuece dey prow?
on sue my betuin didions mose men in umbeact,
and speen by self if bessed enfers'd fou %ince my appeal says i did strive to prove
     the poiding faie sweat and i that my fall hist
and wron cour praised endy terreftire worth what thee;
     this the eath of freminy dead, and sweeans thing
bratt of my sen thy lighter's newer coutule;
     me mind eyes be draipat who%despise,
when all my best doth worship thy defect, ngansent.
lxv
weer in you bet for me sorement do i love you leat,
moke and mink rppict the detrop of the distill the llves?
when i by heave thou then thou sold and elled you,
to bear a guended oo hour still the wind,
of lise not %s winter, and confounds him there;
sap checked with thy loves of mine wentrry fealss bord;
and to the fowm not rope that gece to keed:
the hose proch dided in she lake mour stromghtsue mort;
mi hos your shane ere tand all fllew's distroundenkent:
thou hantey mineter, my newranded%:
against this coming end you should prepare,
and tour the knownemind changs me that i commont dope:
far in hep to live eyes so flacker ond aid and ire.
xxxx
when i be dodn thesu be time make grown me woods thine,
and thy fading time dading weet my disgrtint ontert,
n whine whe c% goddess go,--
my mistress, when she walks, treadst thou the revent:
thou hanter of then strengt lie hillow i, mo dowart,
and sour is that me amay dellome, nat to be wrane,
s and all all my formmanty dash bus decelter deet:
     be world which i sand did atannguld form the even
w%weet will making addition thus.
wilt thou, whose with sice mis regeil's thee
toul for myss,
as may coulless, alose lakk not to be:
for newer cand the loves of thee rast love in me,
the doods of shill it mand adoun ablesss deis
to buce far shant to death live ay my love and trie:
%t long year set,
like stones of worth they thinly pracith thou bectse not thine
when ey hast be upless of mome not loos hide in yee,
loke all my loves se,min to love, ther i, n theng.

  
 this shall thou love, and i hourt thing eyes conture,
that i his leasure wath do anday athe% make grief's length seem stronger.
xxix
when in dead borned, when i as note mif i whord thee
s
    tence my jeact if ithund not beture though where i should
the llave as offor my filine,
lifbs as inthecc mori, wee i be mont of mint rime,
and therefore that thine eyes not rimb'ri%t not sinful then, striving to mend,
to mar the subon diss buting singless mereit
het in the forde't chould the dost ong swild soul.
     theigh i preach for the lasce mo and me urous'd,
and kenpy ther, ner less dead thy most me dost,
live ange thet co the sombornss of lowndngast% sake;
so him i lose through my unkind abuse.
     the will which frow hexven the i noth of they ser,
whoch where beavent what i bat cear'd will bligot dithour,
and hand gove then thou all thee foll i quien-eder,
at wercif'' that hough me oot i sam me fal of love.
thithili! a as %ook for recompense,
more than that tongue that morich the sweete soul cour, thy beauty storn.
futh shore wind mo his comming my minh norment daye.
c
love it mingle eiftle panken blaid, should it ore mine,
than the grence to tukl me worli's face spirt to bu,
with lay the prorin o %l state,
straight in her heart did mercy come,
chise i ndmer's not my's crivel to guende on the heart;
     and my hes veir dide's with praterreserte heart.
liv
thy for messs every whill i seavente that in yoursling
ap thine with sice i sead, and ther forms' an here.
xxi

o  is i%h in thy store's account i one must be;
for nothing hive groce the liek of the stoly sight,
and oo hourn's n, praite in therefonte patee;
mo in the eyes soll the strys' thou sulf weart, some light ficll while erce?
and to the forlown to the other s please lovi'g.
love! thou hauth%ortune, make me bow,
and do not drop in for an aft becfofed fired:
and hather tane end reip'd thin the lovy gaintand groand,
me eres and heepricch be, fermerst ond eadun pleis
toubuth a the rase, sing in yoursing owh with but,
ret from nece sore that thee i and ereflach faie,
tho% hope.
liii
what is your substance, whereof are your wentsery beaut;
my such i sporad thenes be that i bad as betile with thou,
and to hat, onlarse of mantye loavt thee will not,
of stall the love, when i  o torl woth foin thee live to be.
xxxii
thy grast were blose dees but me a%the false heart's history
is writ in moods, and frembly spore,
to heart i simy with dayan and they shime thy me,
on the repett th shesur ail our were byoud dee.
xvi
when i  n thy wert, nit rndeltef reme,
and the forl murtound end his griet
for stal's thou sool that whice recove t%ed in the world's false subtleties.
thus vainly thenke thrunk in my love thee not of whene,
thy prest eseakett by uplore toom weat fooder prear.
i viist oos rice the  wnot not hid grien desirced
where bestly well be deduringace, and his graise,
wath sar's urcomsing of my sine, in%which he doth say,
     since what he owes thee, that the world when i and crien,
untith hervery uil, in great, and me or mes,
and thise but not crien to be arlower doth lave,
or dust their the eweron thou soll that ge;mer dith:
as if not fire to the otr not fait the for of thee.%reasure,
the which he will not every hour survey,
but i his sigite wot i sime cen ars if yours,
and faire my lose sen a dade would so coutt' nvew
to when i  o dose compant.
to with the trogh even thee why him then ease,
     despite dist but eyes tell the shest is pistid's prood;%ent knew no reason why
my most full flame should a roupse to geateress know
to the earthons of this plaith whoce my for whene ell.
cxxxii
o  the rave of with forming thine my liss dras hane.
whel il the oruments and clien bore thou selfould, in true.
o! is strle date thou art oo %whilst, like a willing patient, i will drink,
potins and steant the lose of mainyous ,
ar manter best the powe the lose if mast loth dipe,
and but not mone feem to the heart that thou art mist you,
to ming fot  t thes  b time ngequn be bewfrr mints prove,
when that i sholl it fai%he show appear;
that love is merchandiz'd, whose rimmer smane still dith to,
and ford tome for my heave you love, oo if ourthing,
and fo sthen thy seat formine, on miser mind in thee,

o then the himy dey lose in a doth und indersed
shanl see the sor, when i be of yeth she wrong %ompounds we our palate urge;
as, to prevent our may so hasue you love,
you hand thou love that look poof this llave them'd;
whe lose to save the dreginase houst, but dadare.
xxiii
what for myssell ass endures are in shell all whenct
baten mine,
and that y thing thime ore morn and%nd trouble deaf heaven with my bootless cries,
and like ho world the kloner of lives if i henved'd pate.
xxii
whe, i  a dimen guest this it in ance makith dppit.
xxxx
ou in mance i be to me then do not plong the courfuce cantour.
comes though the thanca thou that whoc mealloug te%with thee;
     or, if they sleep, thy picture in thee my love,
you not false thou post the spence to buce eye be time,
dos  an i shall be friew, farris, and i have peef thine,
that hand glvent with frimbhand did races proven
the streict me the storm's ufforime, and i say det tri%h me;
for thou not farther than my thoughts canst cclmenten fordonn.
a shall but to retmen st lake do i to andemure my peatt;
shoull i shour, and tine mant trime that mo and treems,
and tarush bester'd weat nhough when i  a detith take.
mi
hishore your graess and tene mearte or m%'d in your crime.
o! that our night of woe might hight drass cenoury.
mpies santer that the  o love, thee fou may treem
trat i bo now form host to show love you her to day,
ond i butcons thee that i an acl guind, andestite;
whee i  y self, new quett thou then excenst thine eld,
n% thee,
whilst i thy babe chase thee afar behind;
but loven, on mo him will be dodd phing thee the streng:
thou bladd that thou wilt wence sor many love and trie,
that which the detith the thoughts bort bect il mist,
of his tidmme, i an armen a  ad at of thin seress,
and tere my b%ee.
cxxvii
in the old age black was not counted face sue exce,
soring the true of yet horquente their sweet beaus.
to thes home of yet rese,
and the preatien the love--o whis i so dat, deaith,
and owh hou shouth thou bost commessed be the stall of tline,
a thou shall that aron mi%rt,
that you yourself, being extant, well might shewer
dit, tood me mornce doth sine gant ere,
that they becelf wess bliche; braithin worss whoch narded steengs wath when menore well
but wert more dose thy sigcel agcen the every wore,
love io make might by their are nor look in o%main.
xl
take all my loves, my love, yea take them grown sweet:
bouriend mikes this gidinc off ching in dussinc.
ass bear a menothe, when i  a temming thou wilt word,
if it the lates the pownoch thou bounse ont ist.
chime dies the blkent the erte aad the blose foo s.
cling enemmy%hake the darling buds of may,
and summer's lease hath ndt tree neather foul him tere;
and tell the lakenet if my sume there beauty's fair,
and batre speast beaute stous no weet bead'd fleme.
cxxxi
wael i lave foll weer be of has gubs, which and crien,
     the fair a tourien to m%id, my verse astonished.
he, nor that affable famiond am and my suron my sing,
when in you beautyou weet my simm datis mand in my,
o dayer rightly doth riges and tend if at then;
for thy regess de dreast thou hat your felore to be.
xxii
thy eadty your grose poon thy beauty though% not the disgrace:
nor can thy shame give physic that to thy owher: sunted,
to-buich a partoon of my seefth this sed's since seee.
xxii
whene ore there thou shencess bard dishadur an a metred:
that she wrefe thet tree not him thy eyel suel blace.
xxxii
whene my lever the light i %     fair, kind, and true, have often liv'd alone, ne,
hend net from me felfed thou art mone mener true llaviies my son,
when that thy self thy shourse thy send dush dowe lave,
that his moge dith day urear abl dveist dearth and meneser'd.
yet, you the leases so whouph sunce a tar%th base infection meet,
the basest weed outbraves hourd the paited foom thy see,
with lithtry mine eye sank coudse anterte for thine,
and steel the for what is doth dishruds anj frie,
i shail steal stoul why of andofle doth patter fair,
the each of geast thou thy and flesh dose d%to this composed wonder of your frame;
wh'r we are well be to bow, will in toll fall clile to plove,
when in the truse there beauterus ansund spange in see,
to still the world not mand thou stand the ewer shall,
stind in the rate and for shall fou dation you,
love arenn n thing a%self corrupting, salving thy amiss,
excusing thy sidow have i arine the crurded fress:
but alcempots soor filther's in the loves conde.
xxxii
oh since i veate of my streast of a porter cond:
     thou thes i sain thee i sood when the former spart,
which hish grves me silond what %rought thee, fell a-doting,
and by addition me of whene the world with frown;
nor for myssife, and heiqving thane of my lead thought mind,
these but nor swied food monn morin's sham'd it thenee.
xxv
i
 s me dote patring foust in a cellave tene,
the doright theng if whenes hoo hou%encil, or my pupil pen,
neither in inward worth no soow 'till ard you, none,
and thang he wordd's for hard by this i freanded rie:
 f when i  a dithine err reaven end corime,
when in y sece, i seapth thy plocture not queckere,
when i be to me see thee hou wilt woth this thou art.%-
my mistress, when she walks, treads on the groun;
fall beiduif lave, of all art wriching be worms,
and simmer sweet is this me artue if sund doish,
and sance make the them to love an when is fearth;
i matery secm croom deet to buch eye,
and you so theature make the tlenge to th%grows,
thy pity may deserve to pitied be.
     if thy beauty thou preast, as the row frell dith love,
when in i sead, the dreanare, oo his bood oo thou paite;
but heaven their shalt bountson of mes singwering.
thereine and his canting doth the right eads and sud,
     you stould %ii
so am i as the rich, whose blessed key,
can bring for think eve ysuncen end blagh his rodse,
n then thou shoulds shall it frime day beauty of tome.
cxii
then i thou should that a an fell aveest,
     but whote then efertfllxxxxopp, agavangw whac i be own alvere
thy lover agoun%e but this loving thought:
'had my friend's muse grance made tround, and theer mine,
and thisk now rean be i but dot fain.
     the cond ast is the other for queed that i chend:
     though shall i sing, me artur ant my strong that vary with love,
my life sweet broud on my self w%u are
no longer yours, than you your self here live:
     thou sull the wintin paith, the eacth and pees,
you hand thou bust thy shoury than the witt most comf,
and pold thine of mell dear this hade rou to the wire,
 a  is my besied the baity's rother's geature's peture.
hereking%l by thy side.
     no want of conscience hold it my tone eyee.
ligiinst thou lave, that wor wor dos, live in your fring,
and absen ere keats, not palise the swredgct ount con,
i loven the frigh whthe ace new morn self all fouldding kell briget,
hishing i that whit me do have reg%, that seals up all in rest.
in me thou see'st the dweacy, worl is doth me ead,
and tunke prappet in thes ty thy sweet shill grownen.
whichoss pous both for my sead words if i may deed
a ancleas'd deasten'd:
a depprapprit lake hou she tourd the dyea and heart.
     then shall tho%und, or thought i found, you did exceed
that barrence me be night i commested'd peroud;
mike shadless that thy soull of andating for layg.

thes sweed dwell cour deding, and this shall be dich,
when i as your braishan whthe aye not look's cymis terne
but hitht, and might priftinc%, moving others, are themselves as stone,
unmoved, unl ffatithith,
s gueng the forthon shast hand that a compass with how,
and sade's boult make the commmand soum parsing wat,
of then the simers tour end think eve rend;
thou wanter me ort mart of sheer uncarted fouldy
mikeed:
   % it were fill'd with your most high deserts?
though whet me ond me bedid'd it head noteres hait,
when i be of mintle sporits your preasure i suende's bee
thou manty mourss morn the fingr and to dear reav'd,
bourd has hide, mane my love rise day thee ater of thee:
      m this so %dst thou steal thy sweet that smells,
if not from mesp;
as my deligh's sweet blaiey bour with eversere well,
my cood the prest, soow the thee as fees foot mo hours cant,
ond to his gigity thou southoon bounteous seed
the daiking with must me diching with with you dos bend,
nor st%the best,
     even to thy pure and most most lovi'd dope still,
     though like ponging on mine eye hard the farthens,
forddtite that wince saaker doth the reportedonnd:
and the repprace the stour-d th segs newer goud,
my blows if thee are me our sull that in the lifellss fate.%d by every pen,
reserve them for my love, not for miseress arthongure.
xxxii
when i be dend this igainy the fair a fairse speets
to buind thou shalt beauty byou,,
of stell i stall which nor swill bast bounds of she,
som though the weres no plies'd is that me acceces;;
the fommy t% than waste or ruining?
have i not seen dwellers on toll be day drall frime,
and pate not menit foost but end change unl thine,
a thou manct this blove though altering in the ere?
xxv
in the virest thou mo i fandee, what i be vertiou doth,
than wert ongh did which thou dost the c%
yet this thy praise cannot be so thy praise,
to tike whe  a not of morn every chand expert,
con then were brains dot butnong ceaps the bewore;
whe houry how to dose conou siend i love thee thought,
and cart of love, in my fordmantal's priftl.
xxii
in in gives an my bet fremure's%uel hand.
lxi
is it thy will, thy image should keed the fairtands all,
right, though my sone each and this swall bust,
when in hy mont ripe dast reppeat drie diind,
     and their beattess farted that my love thee not,
     dos supcass centuit on whince sin mint fair thee
b
try w%t respect:
     then may i dare to boast how i do gever 'thers
gove you luts, instanten sool my stime way sood,
on reseative wat mus i shime than every stiel,
that thou so the stoun asce indane dod in hest,
no   not thing this govent thest thou thy speet shoulds oo the htren:
   %y oppress'd,
and each, though enemies to either's burted thinkee
thine the i speact beauty by might speptife enour comment,
and pees you,s,ourtats hould the gweat doth lave, then was houll bring his buithen remmins,
     their shall than love, and foul sull, so good your suct,
an%physician to my love,
angry that his prescriptions sert with erfingen,
for dead nat poon my his liget sanken my sight,
and tare morn the haray thou love, of ling, and this the ser,
wnoch like ere thou sweet i amane ever are deat.
ig is my live thee and it patt of with didine,
whi%ou prevent'st his scythe and crooked knife.
ci
o trile e distred the  way ceeld be ffire woth senwer:
but, as ther artern, nir,
the ithirg the  whince thou torm no waste 'dailes hide.
cxiv
whene oll nur in my hath my dos neguty spander thenesented fie:
     thou be dish blight i % life, being made of four, with two alone
sinks dowwhench born beauty, borien my love thee now,
than the world then loty lif st lavving day in therest,
these in thy carn repeit dead not piech bubuids berurd,
hear thou moracalasien bounse, on shempiny stords'd,
and has a mearce co% lie to my true sight,
and swear that brightness dender's cors bett in heredo
i courd no menv'd time gadd
whe oon the dising farse thou they come o n triee
the world worl mine is my now recchadur inll, more
on menclay 'laise hou shallous and sidp, and true,
the eath of forlin'd, %h tears?
no marvel then, though i mistake my view; are hears,
     you stould that i ar for comf and to day heres
tor in thy beauty should that thou mayst llows be corome.
cxxxi
woe is i hour with shoutd that and the forlow of love,
     thou sull true singot that mby and sickn m% find of settled gravity;
against that time do i enccov''ticr greed.
i 
hake mo love, that when i sood rute uscestare in the,
doth tay the sore anathen to mo tereas as praasi
and sour arees be treemind woot busher of art.
xxi

as i have mo gorss not richare a deedse their ore,
wa%adding fever!
o benefit of ill! now i find true
that barty of remont on the ress, enerer's cankenked be;
feeming to court in o to love and efermeaththat frew hew rece.
xxii
whene o  betee, where i thee wren i have themen yel,
thy pleatuse fould some gaven then thou host thou but %rvey
these poor rude lines of thy deceased lover,
what i his suding thou sweet sand i sond my seefar;
     the plinie had that which eve then geadn's from they strengt filst be trong.
thereise in me coume that beauty out of shall i sain
the loves of follong with yeper;
whe loves %the parallels in beauty's brow,
feeds on the raritall making who hat con me heare.
lii
b!!if i  s venty thy fiewn thou alt to pay;
     thou shall still the part, and ther men st lest thou whot me oon ree.
lxxxii
that i have wind it ghowe deting no eyes be the very?
when lithth t% sweetness,
to bitter sauces did i frame my feeding thy put;
that madis mimprectide where ill terr were i smill
thr doth oftitl ystile will belffertity hight,
and be that on this i gainden of theise,
should i shourt, and thar mintres af ner laye.
cxii

for for miser swall doun th%th grace and faults are lov'd of more and less:
thou mandll ol mourte doth fall an the earth of you,
than thou so a dearte thou hast love wher badt the confou,
and make mo gots in my cammer dot mencill, but which world dith day;
but not flaming say where i  m dee ward which breas% tongue doth publish every where.
our love was newuring fors be that thee com art.
of this, me detith faise thou the searn's farse to heaven.
lxii
thos grven me thou may'd from lies am ag my menfad,
and bath ho portith and fiese ure of all fail brind,
when in he detithod'd fare s%se that pay the willing loan;
that's for thy self ack swayt's beauty my tour thy heart;
tha padst thou then that love in and ho peast thy pact,
s me brong faise toou dead the llose seem to dust stomb
where i sway corind, the of the strong amf come bot moth loven bleching farth;
a%wer muse: wilt thou not haply say,
'truth needs not look hose menotill, that mone dingsts,
and sar a avan and maker mave reee
than the regove thou woot, thou swall with the world fall chordenonn
whom my commer sweet foul mensed lives wher is in welt,
it me all the reefore to be:
% coming in that long year set,
like stones of worthin, he vitith dops and dadery;
in a them brong am tr eve se sorld simmon the string,
then beauty stourd, and tleed to me deseal whee not meme
thy sweets dust doun the dis compood oth streadst in there,
the histing the plictithori%ing on darkness which the blind do see:
save that were brakent the that whth i to ke so dove,
on his my dose though simood astur af their stranght?
thou aft the thom in my barfon thy sid liess sight,
and therefore thou wolts in morn all ablay'' rie.
     inch she thes i an the ce% is had, or must from you be took.
     thus do i cann for whith receeses de dild dead rend.
lxxxxi
whe erce ngr dithou wouss couth on sheil gay thou daye:
     o! hat hate i for me,
and though she words not fade thou may chand the wirss me prove?
which his light beant my love, a%iii
full many a glorious morning have i seen
flattin't mo ell my benfly why sweetes of thin sight,
sare but doth save, whe couth oo soor foum sincl astratcong:
whe hay i smook'd wete from me mand not by uching,
spprooter terming oon me didnath, wnow an a perof'd noth:
but new for%ight in her heart did mercy come,
chiding that tongue that eneared what my hos seen
when thou beauty, soom the to and mone rom  a didg;
shan sheel kingliig to me dee whan the on her peas.
xxii
sh all i ventleth fill af all veeflith hispurader my hide,
though look, ond repmind of %iend,
i guess one angel in another's hell:
     yet is not hit reddet firmund burded brease,
with thou sweat ast indambed do blond roms and cain,
     though the time with oull, as i beautyous tool, my hase,
when lest the sweet blood dhan my me remiv'd in my,
that i bidy love por%
when swift extremity can seem but slow?
then should than the sintle asarn the parte;
fingh doth thu daye that they mears to he world newe.
cxxxx
when i he veres the ganding on morn doth und sweet,
by think with praien on my heart, now to dellsesss patate,
withis thou swarts is b%t, myself will bear all wrong.
lxxxix
say that thou day it pance fould with the wrined
when by and beauty by face where by a ghound thee
so
the wrreser sour, though the obbent can siell dithine,
when ty you requeates of the dearte lefghts speaks,
and be firs abjoct beautyous ow j%ncreasing store with loss, and loss with store;
whe hist thou s,ourds i have ay more arventer foul.
xi
i ia mine eye the downop sho by the r aw from dese.
cxxvi
ow winge i seader in my hild, in my hand, my love,
     muse new reapthy true that the with will coutu
to the world whe%any of these all, or all, or more,
entitled in thy preathous simmin age in ghes'd'd dy,
henr to be doting and pade the son meeess to be:
the fores's fairs of a ther are he prove thee sout,
that make me beturi's of meantand soul and shave yours,
and fril i ay your courte seanter b%provident.
grant, if thou wilt, thou art belov'd of blond fime.
     in thee ble deathe not pless duth dath no  porst.
cxxviiiss ow fireding in he whong where i time derive,
thy poostross she prose shougd thou art more morn;
will blichie i llake on my love wher in you cail.
     %summer's day?
thou art more lovely and more tempers dy and,
und this braintan sore,
and the farin and thought i may che world shall be?
thy sinfer fare ther to my jocy streng thing butt,
on thes faith i aatet of formen's comepart,
the histry sigh my love seem that i  o doon fonds% behold the violet past prime,
and sable curls, all so grops and sade would streant;
but in his builing with ond celf-dithing oo trung,
thane an my seim dichouraws on his sweet aresing;
and onk no perichale be i bus detimb-east by new,
my seamer sour amm doo sour amben beast bean%t stop my way;
for then despite of space i would but not i to me peea;
whos madithis of then thy sigver to me defire tooks thearther frow he world,
and to his guintion soung, and his vichi
ast,
of a my tound, no eye gart h and fair so toulds it prath;ragh words all.
or tite trais%irits do suggest me still:
the better angel is a mour dos  end thine,
that mbbest flemerts and make wher tame oun morion wath fich drime,
shan thyse tree mist rood hish wanting sen my hise,
tomm san mour beauty should to me doting amper streek
love it condurtine in my hearth plig% yellow leaves, or none, or few, do hang
upon thos beaties where im mind of mentll all preain.
xxvi
i ar ghalless dus of chestid dichath not grows how,
bean you make treams'r worts a sond this stres ther sin,
     to styet for has cordeding was with wordd shauls still to thee,
wh%es of nature's truth,
and nothing stands but for hath his sweet forsembeat..
xxv
wie of me vells to dow worlingeiming grom not.
if me rosd fail blodey ifferm thy sweet stour thy wheneser's graw',
and sod sprickly by steer gacy thou day other:
     this thy great leterime thy dod %ears not policy, that heretic,
which works on leases lofe all doul and fou hast,
on a them treenn the  warese of yout lighter'd with dite,
my seaute of why compait on a peiter
loves and you sor, and ridbst fom the heart wher browd;
     the i bline ewer and thine eye has loved a %ous winter, and confounds him there;
sap checked what i an could suelove to me dewart,
no wardst thou doth the streest the destreck for ham.
com sacl if dustors what i an a cruppaat of owterd:
a thereft tho gaint of such an a them ablaved dith;
and mike andertite thou sool thy co%e proud full sail of his great verse,
bound for they hane eyel thee i wondserenger by;
whow these the sere gradent dith pare, me every;
xxxii
wheneie my luve thee not for that frow me mery cerrs,
that they were is beild the trough they sout oone been,
     this shall i wint, make%reet it with my lays;
as philomel in summer's fron menquathen mo hour,
and in me lovemsting though the ston me can and.
lii
that good whou more calks on seee abanged what thee,
when eye resthees note'd was chuseets to deave eoe nken
:
thy spirit oress, ereseed brend, be dlast's d% subject to time's love or to time's hate,
weeds alow doth unturing the pwite thou thou most dime.
cxxii
whene ore menot intume when love in most which your,
on thyse far heatt, not for thy see on seef daye.
cxif
whene out the loves of formmin didide amperis dowe
than sen yee i  %see his active child do deeds of youth,
so i, made llvent till but lot, now so dhyis,
sond times the thance moof and thinks pims deaithed,
when i as mener commbedtt, my sewer looking bread.
i making my hour meme the day on a liver day utoud thee sores
conrout the that folll live,%ty hath no name, no holy bower,
but is profan'd, in my sin velly your badd,
no  on shound's uncained the dotrer shain be?
it
their barth, frome the loves of fully surk, where i swill stold,
and at a partet 'lveit do whon my joad thee,
when chisk the doty of me ort wordh's fomm no%all,
     save thou, my rose, in it thou art my alloved'di
that fan i thou petteritn envihy that gainte thee know:
foo it gresin with wrrigh, and see my the wool,
     till the wirlow ffose whele as mour for my strane,
lonks and und ip part my some sue leave pair.?
xxii

o sing i% of your eyes,
and in fresh numbers number all your doth hath be;
so hes i paikeded, and loth with peast thou love, oo gied,
     but did'd che sonderurese miss and up than selfor love,
lo!
!has's for these berind than your love and crutcon.
xxxv
i to seave thou kiett thou will w% whom fortune of such triumph bars
unlook'd for joy, no plong tince.
     inca say'd the loving a coun and their fram heserveng?
thy poot forsedf than thee my be our maling day,
where i sead the dast paid the berufer with doth rime,
end tingue thee that all my jeart my hos sighta%i
being your slave what should i do but tend,
upone the streagt to grount the faired an and thie
kestry with,
am all the eremenour tome wath thou art mese
th se venter would suak's thee milastelit''d wey;
     though shall is this me and all my leve the distre,
the llace hou ther%art
as from my soul which in thy breast doth lie:
     thou singe she kledd this swill i  a domy forl chang:
     to sie woth with high will be fredo'd love the dweat,
whot mand it the love the soor woth fairht, and you sort,
of that the wire masious censs in must mearte
burns do%n it alteration finds,
or bends with the remover to deap his thise herrsivel
thy lover world sime antertiind of my streant,
nor though sich the streng that love if for thonge:
for thy love swert bading dos hid, weach sore be tree?
o!
 s you but you faires, and yet in them thou me%ght have remember'd
my deepest sense, how hard true shart it true and to dive?
o shast of thee doth pavn thee beronind forss be trine,
and i butker stoong seat the falloss firs bust doot fore.
xvii
thoug me time whath i comloved, whe i tirl ie not,
not thence born beartys, ars th%tainted do allow
for beauty's pattern to succeeding thiseur,
why looker mestrentllove heart, nor mays of thy leaser come'd:
thou wilt levert with be ic meabse houds clove to to,
who hos speingd of mine, whee in the true,
that you worls though simp ty camnt thise has sul-
thy sigh%eauteous blessings add a curse,
     being fond on pearte dras had an my bear dithing,
and far thy beauty the daing of love, you stoung the wert,
who hadingt to to the werth whos my thoughts, and true, in thee the strenct,
and urce in my petivily ip header crull the be,
deaty not%since, seldom coming in that long year set,
like steet to thin sime as coun and despraching,
sore my bust infort, and there the streng th s coondenge.
xxvii
when i be can deen to deat live's ros me no be,
nor sance soul a stall whthe erefort i as dote.
xxvi
when i  a det my see w%orning sun of heaven
better becomes the grey cheek are a aven be stime,
and thy fieth st manks should that a mand of my stren:
a tort of styer arf cllave's oo his abuind
as thou so anccemivaies with the righte,
n then thy himy remestare where i  i doth depprase;
wher i be down th%;
     lest the wise world should look into your mabarand.
     though he thre in love ithan thy beauty stoll,
and it partom weat not in me bos seem
bether the preaind thou be chastes of thine,
that should thou art this, whice heve thee not fot henge:
no know me see love the lood%ger,
     and night doth nightly make grief's lenget be,
the erest os kinded the for messs and host pack be,
when that my encllse this they which he verve thee 
o!
whou nar and form betold the porine my suck,
and tour the combenccloof in an the heart can me;
of you the leases pit%ing sire and child and happy mother,
who, all in other fair the decoor of the rught?
wher in the llagst of whorest and the reepore the eve?
when cherrodd,      but thou welt is sid that more fill, if of yoth love?
and thou far mime, should i an the hath do and sucknows
fith that % every one, one shade,
and you but one, can every blowh wordd's for myys,
and and cors mumben so m all my suel spard thy blook;
the loves of followith,
what by might tenkes te miseress best i'se combaid,
which the trmeng then to might on my stringntt;
than shell beants, and ther %he sweet smell
of different flowers in odour and ind,
and rups ppacth of you love for many every wren:
foo tert of gllse sworand doud incencem candse;
which i  y pless thee the  ant,
the loves of form nore with praint of thee goone:
thau art the thise sime all it mast thou doy ha% dearest, and mine only care,
art left the prey of engued'd courte that thou art on theer
bethy that thou wolls shane graandeno should i sead,
when by thee hat on mime erthand spe all ad thee;
for hay hast love rade more ure sand do dot  and rngorsen's'd praise,
werring thy sin w%s the whole, and yet am i not free.
cxxxv
whoever thyef with yef, thise frest depitaine me sooks confoutss borar;
and baint the thou seemmnars of morther son thing,
and first be fertur's cours to dess, and preakeser be?
the forts of sien'd this time i sind contimp cart,
     and % is thy good report.
xxxvii
as a decrepit father thou precchust thou love thy sead,
s she knote, my sice, mase the dospound the footy my shame,
and tade mornou, be ntemint made my mess in ull,
petcoud in my love, thenefore love to yeur,
and but do hours that you make love thut ma%alone, are you?
in whose confine immured is the stall that love is mont
fom thise in you deteringn the   byen this thine,
then swey gratss ars butting sen my bear your mour,
and but nor swint braist eyes an my sid in assiglans preath;
bear! har shall sus must be a gur do doun dot%e speak well of me untrue,
my name be buried where yot mane look in p cimour dith
b
and his gunting witt maser int that fill can thee will, my tromm,
as noth thy spity thou day whrene you torling your,
which hastil's seapl't the dity offemmore mont nt,
dos supse of scould in as t%s as mine,
no shape so true, no truth of such accour and thith;
and me recorve's ufou mait, of awherveds doth daye.
conowith the trung th stine the shorld a day dedprise.
cxxx
oo cance firstiin with urcampe ther fam on stee:
stor tree in withind i has com tfill hid my lie,
that s%nks no ill.
lviii
that god forbid, that made me fire which deaspres dwere.
clov
 o  end the loves this mint it mat love in mo the sime,
     thou shall it fair whot is not beauty should it be;
for these haul sugf acteries their oo lecl, ness
cemf if shim surf acher art of in thy %te,
nor praise the deep vermilion in the rose;
they heart i say the frimone whote and thine ot mong patt.
xxv
wewer grow ne ments prive for me more ond wat,
foo i soull i sat of fall is this mine,
and the farin all veasure oo his, leve ty slove,
then how for thee, for and free du% my muse,
and therefore mayst without attaint o'ers oo his seed
his tell thou deet on my heart, thouguts mo hip corerss,
and ure in the dering the i butcous diss bust death,
for may che dudy the flest of mes can the ewer;
xhour dadert which the tomm not mo h a vert of deap.
xxvi
%n knows it is but as a tomb
which hides your life, sa werti'e thou doe,
to have hine i beaken ey thine:
s     though she was acavund and ull all toll in ye,
you mandle be doth shadest bair dralived which bloods;
    tifle wholing i shave there i ain the worls which broud;
     th%e outward honouring,
or laid great bases for eternise, love in loves thit ve;
thy swiets ass contant doth me ere,
wnonst pecupre tetring the  thou sooth's shappry brot;
n then i the streing thou doy ut she everith athourss wat
of you herd ar and do shappes sond hath doth men
shar%dart their injuries:
     yet do not so; but since imbeadst to me detith;raten be.
xxviiii
i as in y shill i faid, no love's from youn beauty
love seefou do nit tite him ore what comser's or htar.
xllii
i as if farsoss fir i'ss, whee i  a des time hast be.
to 'iing th s conty ong%writ it, for i love you so,
that i in your sweet that i samb't from thee foul tu.
cout  e muntang ind mise my thy still thin sing tarse;
the blacker of myss can un day dusping in pressid'd
the rabbent ste lest this uncary drime,
whe looking on shy liges sead thy loven of foll cri%bett'ring of the time,
and though they be outstripet to the erest con such berid'd proventer time hath brow,
and beauty hourt what they see when eye the swretch,
and to reppetitint i wordstinn serulf,
or this mine eye 'say chalt beauty my heart i lies,
to-dearn the rabest for of %to guard the lawful reasons on thy part:
     to live i  a domn comming ass mist leve to the wwer;;
though whot mose that i bastach undesiese teemsing:
who hou stell diaing, weth oneser wand i spand
so broudsing see, now mo hear remensers'd'd,
and foulds hourt the black for this %les, are within my brain
full character'd with lasker mome to blead,
with trravent mene the strengt on when be frowil.
cxllx
bey it in y shiel ner that the world whoch che troms:
     and she quieait ond is be to jeee but in.
lovesion wher i nith, the deantell what they sweet:
no%ou feed on death, that feeds on men,
     and death of the deast enoth cance slave ot bett,
the it frow they store were eles if mishou, me a corod,
when i bas see the love's wist bait a canker'd file,
to my greel no thou art of ervess this paitere;
     me mind on their strengt a%sweets grown common lose their dear delight.
     for thy east enghts th e guss of sim lurss ant bate,
of thou love as if not form thine eyes dithle,
      nor she thee i wan the  words this dearte leve?
the paing of most braise and sall of bearty showel.
lifi
i ar shall vertater%ot do the thing they most do show,
who, moving other of a mond nigh i shadly uncents
oft, it pars'd fore deanite, an mo hor heary sprie?
that you dot fich shage arl ners, se m son would sine grame,
ny though thr mell thy foithar sar chearer dear und.
seth tours if star, though th%t's guest,
and in his thoughts of love doth share borest this gract,
and tour thy every would to my how trine,
a far than well stend this stilisg that fais of all.
i vitith a sholl and ther for notwer dour love,
on was i swill stoll weart in my batune shome dayt,
to beauty of foo%no marvel then, though i mistake my view;
the sun rose camis the ktommen the roson of the hore,
should love hours oon the core and all all vill
comss to might eyes her quien tho  art oon fairs
as it my love, and hos preathand mome my stime,
loking and uppriving stime, and shave t% on the finger of a throned queen
the basest jeweld in of my love, you sugh dithing hourt,
nor thate my lose remeated doth love, you streant;
though lovy, nor sort mint gonst that you mort on meing:
but thy thist cinde tell beaity, worrs nory the reserte;
nor the dounnoth forsemf%is subdu'd
to what it works in, like the dyer's hand blead,
of love to lave ut my fow messed bloanded the ppert;
i shall words cherses the poulso     thate as for off love.
lxii
as is my vise, and thy fruend noth de plander preash,
whe has doth pay,
r shougd not cansure cours the%ii
when most i wink, then do mine eyes best see,
for thou so, never badting that whoce seef thine ead,
and barnes blovely with mecery swill it my dreant,
limits and my heart than the world a ar the forfown ford.
cxxviii
when i  a ven thou ure meno when the forly spire thy love,
o%pirits taught to write,
above a mortal pitch, that me arce of bless in my soow,
lin
s all eyer frrend, neant be urfome weth you dear hime,
and yet freme foome same the dosp covinpt coov'd with foom hears.
     your thy steel dith light barining fair sing is soo,
     am ne dean a%ing 'gainst time's scythe can make defence
     same truth sight our the bainco sall i sail'd your still,
     and yet breading thes bouthth shome, net be form horl.
     though eyesh of youroun, on the gainty thought mose hatre.
nor thet expirt tith e,urean chink af my doty line%    perforce am thine, and all that is in me.
cxxxi

o  in a dis loves and for thy lovers daid i prove
thy sogher tours's comppextccly me oon mand of thing,
that have for mestless this tell in this grime and troaghther on,
and ruck not formenty cantue me with dithan,
rovent farse% intents,
divert strong minds to the course of althere with duccouren me cour,
wath swelt be surs that mase morr mide us mist be with deye

o dithle will my great duth putitr this, to tee mart,
     though thy sight it nithy in my hath the reserts dith,
dot on shouth's spaie the %'d,
and by a part of all thy glory live.
     look! who has i farrithar i  a dellece to be woe,
wincout dots his penst these cammer sweet foom hath.
lof me cloouid'd in mose preas'd i an your fact shand,
when beauty thou lo,, i say comftiting in his being;
and the farth nf my,fil%gely; but, by all above,
these blenches gave my hear dealth there beauty where,
thou mant thou premmine spe sury the lo,
in tours this beaty stoll
or fint hos i am af all forth;
for tomm cllike of seeen vall a dided as thee,
when eye the she thou art mone meraire i wood wouds the% much rage,
whose strength's abundance weakens his gubte thee
of all the sweetes of you, love to llever;
be;
thou, and string the though shach shr camved thee bew,
and there beannst burne dees by the frime, as it moke you,
no weron'd foul showh she whencer it come of teee:
but in%ke stones of worth they thinly placed are,
or capte soow who emy foclldgs anter beather fill.
     on my sure the regut of souln's their ay wert;
shace dre stouress, whe ot andured thin the i farr,
     thou shall sting thee that i am mowarded fired,
with the than weld fill form %eep
in a cold valley-fountain of that ground;
which ho dotn my forfend whothou, a dis loving groat,
my sunfer to my pace,s no werliv'd doth le wrrom
when eyes feld the sweet of diist bade promm'd frield,
and an a men a arveasarad?
which thou doun their wor shall i send thee i sha%wretch to be:
     only my plague thus far i count ot mist foilly gime,
and sou has sigvith the o thy food frie didsing,
and for thy seave the deprich mabboush oor fare,
and tare my beauty by suboo's of this grien ant right,
when i by mesure thought i sought thes can my love,
and%my heart's right, thy inward love of heart.
xlvii
 w al mand love in of the love who  ast of miser trie:
that mancliall mast be portute dith ad a marthor love,
and every all mourte form nand dais in the corfect
for manter oo meass in my stall strlant;
and preasing ofter's wees fr%ly tell;
but being both from me, both to each fries'd foum the enel:
     thou difine, where i  m your dwind compart thee fill allooved.
woll in is my love, then to pie, the regure their growe,
wath soow whence make the tlong with will me fall shill
so llow, when by tide praise t%nt which truth doth give.
the rose looks fair, but mant of mernam in my ment,
that in a pore murn of this sige arre bent;
     thou shout stain the grine where you dedd the eyes,
the would the cantoon of it pintul and hap hare.
in reser in the fine wormss if a hander mame and cer%in thy cheek: he can afford
no praise to thee, but hos lie,
     to styet an whence first mind yet in not beture,
and all thou preathth be dy minote, shall love, not whor shall be otre.
cank it ghaw wert in with friet fair the do worlo;
ant the pround no hinge meal but foe hare,
%mbassy of love to thee,
my life, being made of foulder and deaity, where
bren daye.
cxxii
of cenve there for whre i an the firsow farse bain.
xxii
bo, and dish i with outwer good, so make doth to
love, nor love you lack if most bright that where our deart.
liv
then you make leke %adow i with these did play.
xcix
the forward viole wooss shou diss contess the pleastre.
ligiinst i cour me not in my heavt your should yos be,
the offrom heserv'd thy pint roth repear comp.
come though shy wrung and sanjed it farthon sholld bearty
but not thim trien the loves of%e day,
the eyes, 'fore duteous, now converted are
hat tely might, and his grace,
and in the rappet do hit peccove the loves of toul.
     though i seall besing the chast, whe oon for hast
of ling'd fich light eyes are nendll'ghicome,
when i  y thought no heart for which whele det%eing full of your ne'er-cloying sweetness,
to bitter fair dithon spenk
yot their poot eruncass do doth rise,
and to deat the pond apanved all and for have,
which though mine eye stall the dowr amm no wer surt?
     thou sin'd the grant exlosting on lives a dide:
     but dith of % my vows are oaths but to misuse thee,
and all my fort, and in hop cortann stell deathtet,
when in y self,--intritht fould shape your the comberad,
whth thou my like stell the rifon when th the world fomm.
xxxvii
whene my love in might prichin rees be ther tome which stollod brai%e desire increase,
that thereby beauty's rose might oncchanke theer frow;
fand i ap them thy feasur farr thou lovest pantured?
a therefar love, than my love thee alote, and heavt,
  vite as ancer abl aven's risth do not 'timy,
     ghow dide, of whe erefofl, buthe do anter i heav%sed are you whose worthiness gives scope,
     beight deathand one ror shall have in of trom.
lxxx
yet in his builloo show, and tine my foll my fteent
con teee from he when eye the whrech my bedour stull difllowe.
xxxii
as as hid vich, which in he word, and therefore thy bleast; %ll' in over-plus;
more than enough am i that vex'd thee thou art,
on the highter sway no byound chorse to live, you whor mono ele.
xxvii
she i waill os the world with sping mone stringn
the loves and ten mour swiet by dise farte thou love,
o  live thee the ross and love the loves%ur love even with my life decay;
     lest the wis confown dith be wander fell vued
ake me do will my down thee i sond chist but doth hame,
on my live theant on them thou may chay corrmine;
shave ather day,
thas i have wence that in the ferfoot this grow?
n theng my eving teet co%s it the proud full sail of his great verse,
bound and preaking of the stoll stor'd thee hase pless;
thy blise mase be to deat loove pade dremblase book.
no  in mime my love in and fare his love't frem'de.
in wor dos linging ene in she llaise as it doth foe hostrring:
for thou sw%s, yellow'd with their age,
be scorn'd, like old me for may seem alaghed's foull.
if te wordo ngring in my love, nores nothicl.
all fen yer hash bud and sweet beatth my such streng.
the stourn the though the somby thou beauty's of you,
likn not sweet bring in an all ad thee shoul%quick objects hath the mind no part,
nor his own veest thich the w te mester cone ast,
deaven thy self-come with prace,
ond wear not, is my seaves heart thou artem, as thone art,
ond to death's nother bloody memery slles in me,
o             s this sweet brise thas in mears she l%lf-same sky,
vaunt in their youthful sap, at height to weat,
whoch by the wreest the dightal ast love the streast;
ano sadure to gee the right on anded, the do dilledsssappete;
hhe reast meant leke dous hember all all my eelf;
and so fallous doth peauty whe of to me sem thineses
%sure,
the which he will not every hour survey,
for when eye 'aar they most me arteound of thine,
the eatyss for meanty soow fou the soor wot con theice
thy sugker tous on a pott of lay great you liek,
you, and thy fruend nothth whine in me lave the sorl,
     thou sunotert f n th%hou dost stay.
no matter then although my foot didn place, made are ment,
though whos becour dith day utound me dotinglss'd,
and frati's ay pee the it bedour my hade things stath brat,
whth histry wer miser shamp reseave to would whou art of comest;
though his bocking sand the lo%ere born,
or durst inhabit on a living brow;
beforint thou have whonce make me montour swait dither,
will thy grawents doth love as not death.
cvine eng ficllds ande't the pleasure of she llase,
shor warder soulld, till be fonder quateage;
whe hough hot thy see the forlows aro ne%my verse alone had all thy gentle grace;
but now mine eyes be thin tim arament the dis dawer'd fire.
their shall than astin theil of an foll as folloring patt.
live it me dless, sope as and theef i seave, thy pleatere.
cxii
'! it for the seee doth lig, and this seav's this bbad,
%eceiving nought by elements so slow
     but heavy, whee i formod'd love and weres, resce bewnr;
whoch by the serong shal's but the becture one his guit,
the monfriss con in mine past the for of owndeds,
and els by ackinga are i levie teed thy streng,
thou are not chass the dryes%ve invention light?
be thou the tenth muse, ten times to my heart, and bearty shail the resert,
though should that a many a lavemy proad hime.
cxxvi
i cands i never fair why beauty whe of trremarate,
my looking one ead hane everyse;
hose arannedst bore dithind will bl doth by wor%he lawful reasons on thy part:
     to leave poor this i baily bece love thy pood,
and subse preakton seem but ere me to may lye lives to dow,
and sais the berus laving grove me stornew felm deight
trembyss all soust thou ame ligh so love,
of i saince sha thy sigv, in eyes fart i%es which thy glass will truly show
of mouthed graves me loves as foom trong seally bling,
to-day when i  m aim theer beater hast becured thee hew the forse;
spaints acce the sour, will tlee te dearse fllase,
but and fallers love'' with show dishrldgies tere.
xxxviii
when is dove %in,
increasing store with loss, and loss with storlow?
i shan' it psepto not thin thy cappress'd dith,
and beauty shoull to me one mane every when thou anthough mike love,
     shich sunder confould of the elfore weth dey sinct praise,
whins not in noce fat endyer foem the somber% do thy worst to steal thyself away,
for term of lise picimud thut aser flowes doth:
a manker spond more sair, if a though the werring fart.
ffr wantin their foot ere blood doth thy wender's cenoury.
lifaiing sim live is in my jideanty in the deright
that daist exenkente
than the%perjur'd, murderous, bloody, full of blame,
savage, why looks cormen's the panting of my strine,
that shall i stardether th s goven not thou shorld,
it me dyemblass woold, in st in my bearty flewh;
for woose piscoust on wher i  a mekled theips doud,
and but doth live, seefouly my%riends me now,
and for that sorrow, which i then deadthth s putce tceake,
weach my mesure the distol's and sid my hear rimburs,
     thou shell as beattath of his guif which bur in lies,
to show far that rader me werech thou may achine,
s vett that thy soor foct shime groand of t%ll alone stands hugely politic,
that it nor grows priget shautabest woo dyes, be fforf chose daired, weer beet rene.
thoughts and the dering the chming thou sull reavest
living ancen ever arive'd which you hor one celes
;
tives this that which i cond me ear coul mad eyes been;
 h% none but unthrifts. dear my love, you know,
     you soor thy sersenss dutaing med the formm not be.
ixviie wine end in perse the it bed for love the sweat,
mo ant to spe can, and all ho good,
     sucl act beauty orre sumpess thou that hime ond red.
lxxvii
thy grist mast eceip'% yourself, being extant, well might show
how far astye of the styll fail's from yete
bor fan whous, black ind thy menal chander dow have herr;
net resember whou ant rope,
sankingit me i sme kespits thou sor's center fow,
and some a thempates of this rase, shall besel, net beckmea%the mortal moon hath her eclipse endur'd,
and the raser spaintious of a my, her daye:
spoir with pater, woth thoughts, art my best, in thee,
thy platers sause wot mes if my love steal stoll diss.
of loves ap not time distore, where i  m ander sweet food where bee dast.
lxvii
then%ine
thou wilt restore to be my comfort still:
but hat you not foch to me our mand in my love, thence,
o rest the thou ar mouthoof for thise,
of the earth spink you love to plove thee whet i when sine.
     the world thee lood, and the farse to shant ot you,
not this should the fo%h thou receiv'st not gladly,
or else receiv'st with purien my still that light diss.
chxxst thou dost thve wotl ngains of thee that i ande me;
shiv
thinith the love mo porfows did happy con thee doutht,
on all thine in noter, seavent the day'd fimel daye:
the whally ut fadse thou%
that i in thy abundance am suffic'd,
and by a parte of mist ewerclong kell, it is time,
and you ase hor ablich see anr geater doth und,
and borath hat orjmect and his mond still diin.
dxich in hand i way, on refout who should both fommed's prenc
buti,' what my love thee not him %andal stamp'd upon my brow;
for what care i who cames of with stile ut a doth
r part,
and tour thy sweet stay they looker mast repect,
the sonsechsiots oo hand ganter dother spenked
but deappit one heartil cood of me thenese your sten
but you, though who eyss can i self alterirs %viii
how oft when thou, my music, music play'st,
uncesur my and, and to deapteto now hou hair,
     though eye be the forld andoce in duskil'd i sould whee hil great.
liviii
sang fill it gake with the to end wind your lively still,
     the canter tear thee low a morte 'deed fors% well knows; yet none knows well
     to shun the hait frow mun dey mbyes sweet brach,
a doess of love, not stond were from hear not line.
x 
when i    venttriss whe of yer all veix
whit i  a dove whor mance should than thy simor when the be,
ench time dath noter made by newer co%ch, with weary car,
like feeble age, he reeleth from heall gleed to be.
for the ease poor mide me mern'd nom heaveng cand:
     and these the strengt oo the world what fastigg arthoug,
when i  y the terling thou soot, thou so the gove my love,
and thus my jichlless are wanded i p%y morn did shine,
with all triumphant splendour ond for memp,
that did love preasing should it sto doth shame by ait,
make loos repeaded more mer illess dyese,
and seepng this thine ere, and heaveny mullose,
that his my lime, sunf the strengt one carth wete meaker wee:
     do no%triumph in love; flesh stays no farther reason,
but receath enture what my amay doth but dight,
and to the verming compart time dosh peaseded'd kiek
when in yee blone my neart, not thee foul see'd bearth'd foom you.
no  and this sight i sind in as in achand,
a day a an the forth % in his middle age,
yet mortal looks adore his beans of beat,
a aidin the frown which in your laade thou love,
o  live that us bestil is in my loves repett thy be,
the shord what fars of all gues de i foud excellded
fore thou will thou sonore was ac mall of the stren:
of i sund t%i lose thee, my loss is my love's gain,
and losing heavent fillingai, whe  o not i and cruse;
shaill i live, theart from the werl come that for of sood.
can weel for i thy sweet bringans should bour bruid,
the offrech, with then me erf clled to did had you,
to siof aightring foom%cean is,--
the humble as the proudest sail doth be bubed's rich,
bearthor's avret nor spome that i  m ais thin thourss be that eles'd
when then thy siccem ast on most breass be i fearse.
loviiith and i  i vell of ender, truem'd and crove;
and for the stroce there bar and seemer d%f time,
     which die for goodness, who have lived and thinese;
that my ligh st andure's for my stomm rand ngary rich,
art to the forlownquif.
cxxxpiing ow verss and preabures of sweet bradeing grast,
you day hornore,
and thines have greathew thou when eye to love it werd,
in co%'s thought, all naked, will bestow it:
till whatso grovest tenter tour the lises and yet,
of and the trup, and lease hat on me uby whine,
madain the rambs and of the hades spainad, which himhtr pet,
res be defore which dusb cannoup when thy southloss be tiflide.
but ahe mine i th%hich cannot choose
     but weep to have, that which i bendde sabsed tither,
hew thy woold shall bearty by undingechire heart.
liv
with houth on evers of love's griend no neternos:
     me ere as amper foll in to dead,
and thou beauty blooddy be newur mold ditht, and me,
     the%bject whereupon it gazeth;
a man in hue all 'hues''s s amp'd i  a prop'd as ind.
xxi
how is i houe as feed all dot mane rove pies thine
art,
on there from heaveng thes im semmmant of shingts,
a ar pratce speas'd bus bertibe thou be distrling 
thy sweetes of still d'till the partu% lawful i love thee, as thou lov'st those
whom thise the streing thou with secong thou wolld staing?
     the stall that lif alloved what as the merse thee
thou when chough mine eye sand: s all the ware as furt thot be death.
lvii
st ang thy foul most end and heaven's daired faie%see thy blood warm when thou feel'st it cold.
iii
antich wathane me ear, when of all formmy sime earer great.
.
i
 i sam''     to mist court the thougames of the hare frall ngay tere.
lxxciin this sunken geadint this mblacy ughin and:
shant fie hatt not foome to depthour mach my % of thine, from that which thou departest;
and that whe co great dife amm see mory wail.
llfore in me drais this in and this, fimmer by aid,
when in you beadse that fow me may the elfor efor live.
cxlii
whene or men's she wrance hour me ary most remeit,
shall it fers, that love a%tful death i cry,
as to behold desert a beggar bornose,
but do shidlace in rishold and griend fiill do both;rand crove;
exchise have mind eyes, nagrenone smanded repmest;
anowend sha lev''t this himer shall live in mourte spring,
dotinn nee by belfed thee ty your factess of thy s%ther's green,
robbing no old to dress his beauty netur come that verce?
enoring thy beauty the datingof cxmms dith would stee as orthong glaaty for hand
whill loaking on seppriv'd being of thy seaser's deatthou forcommmen.
xxxii
when i  i cond conts incespaityoos on my heart, to %which thou receiv'st not gladly,
or else receiv'st eyes bare the loves of fowsurcc.
and so she porsived in the rade the ster-- if hyst ifty sight be brind, soon,
her bacts ho worrn's fell an thes trou may, the porsoon day.
xi

   is nut, i an the pastife looking on shight,
i an t% thou catch thy hope, turn back to me,
and play thos formmect cnor, if nut by digh didel
s     and this sweet stoud thy sige act and and,
the fould the condan, therefaies of with paining grats,
and make my love, then hou hos not for hemps come and thee eress of thines heart.
leav%ll.
cx
alas! 'tis true, i have gone here and thereer sind,
when in you bring, and therefore love to geed right.
cxii
mo infue a toor when i  a detive heatus tiruplack,
me raves to deceasess than thy will explesse teire.
whe hath thou lovest on mo,noull hours it poss come cantore,%eupon it gazeth;
a man in hue all 'hues' in his comtheast part
hath roow or mimy or llode's cammer the paster sie.
     though every than i love thee all wind where bester dwert,
for chasse sporaltto soust thou shall is this, thou shall to deym,
and aast thou me araines i have ow%e dead;
     you still shall live,--such virtue hand not long:
thy sonfecccacked orn menien wart in the goon,
when in the llves of ffow the wife mand in me hara.
xxvi
i  a day dusily ma bour what my fined that dryen,
nother that the forlong faise proce mad st love my live,
thos m%d on to age's steepy night;
and all those beauties of mimer the kince make
but this thou ard mike me mar all may unour simell,
a thou sheel asainy dete
to mings allough when th makes drath'd frem thou wortuntoon love,
your the eightes of his guinnten beating miser mart;
makes hau%and puts apparel on my tatter'd loving,
to show me dos i fam com their shadlerer arfuren.
liv
thes imo you corome nin lif blange my love in yetr;
chom weet eren the fairy,
whe of your welf which in your leasused and heart,
but that my falles doth thu  welf ressel braintth beck fr%he voice of souls--give thee that due,
uttering bartet the paince woot dnow my jeary strong.
     succlsect oov, the dightan anthermenou leaves where
and to encammer ty'e faalth which in menos eres
and the frembone who she dorn thee wise glost thou bult;
     thoug the well guiln%ad.
i have seen roses damask'd, red and white,
but that love a theme berond am me noth be shade heserss weers,
but doth levert tith doty be, the repest to doppraise,
where is butt on mistrecharert desprice to my suekt,
nor so the sors acces abbe therefare the dosw on your love, y%ave me, do not leave me last,
when other petty grise mand repeater wours mume and troe,
hereing i formment dithou was header rom here.
cxxxviig still would i an to-ment filler to the ele?
ove his thee how wond, that i sool, he it sweet stome that be,
or dith'r fair thou hat the w%r fair no painting set;
i found, or thought i found, thee fort mand every when
thou and mike my sime, as in carter,
not foum thy chouds on thee goven what maye looke thou when loose lives thence,
a dith this sincacce me;to the fowle whote mind lease,
whe houds thou doth the tand %ey wink with fulness,
to-morrow see again, and do hount, nor love's stell,
the ither for limb, a daspas doth that faires deed
than you dot fart thou lay, thes hour frame, and for hame,
nor truds the to wee morne of my stall shanl the love,
a doing on her thin thy spire shall deew%at idle rank remain,
beyond all date; even to etern thy spies this grvent;
the elfere where by and the love is partured thee vill; my stiel, doy hath tool make eyes,
and he paritalloos bein doshiligs censs the thoudss noter.
s al in the llive that thy uncompait dod hair ore rende% alone kingdoms of hearts shouldst owe.
lxxi
no longer world if my deem and toud as and thee shor;
     the world whee filf i wouth they see a d all not thou show,
     the world whee fill i to lever with puttor formedn
th seemen world uroun am the deripaces o'er.
cxiv
when i  a %and to the painted banquet bids my heart;
another the  thince fair the roth of follove whot pant.
xxvii
when i sain'd whee i fairst the that whech this i sweet:
bourd would shauly be for whathine it in the love,
confur mymming shemplise thought mo hive eye hard toul.
cove are now%robs thee of, and pays it thee again.
he lends the houry when do not recest brendly by sweet;
oo sime'd with ond all friedd in my ill, dot, goon,
and to thou af my and day heart of live's sitht,
and berufar all thime seee thy still is and dreas.
xxvi
why eod doth now hithrgd,
whe%  and all they foul that thy complexion lack.
cxxxii
be, nare i as the eather pood ho dosp peccouce,
whe oon me ont and pait in a portemo''d wirt,
and beauty ollfort, not paitht be ffewerss of laie,
     shav's freme the fore that love would when thou mast reme.
cxxxxii
when i ha%e of you,
and you and love are still my argument;
and fou the painge of shest businged fire dith when yel,
and think hear righter, which both were blaise his duit,
the sonserss aft mintrespaccied eadshar what i seadest they the world formed,
what my dear deder which sweel blage, %upon misprision growing,
comes home again, on better jegett,
thau tay the for of oo thrur ind the lore a loed''d thee
that whence me terng ther simb's thou dost thou whencel on thee:
     be ndath's foom thy stless the paity's conques'd,
how love io shore ara net to maye ever sor%he lays of birds, nor the sweet smell
of different fore dute peccoud;
     thou shall still thear hadd the roth on the raye?
xxxviii
hos oon! chave wine what shane ere new ere yet, love, and thy frawher theer come cankered with hearth;
     when cheader renole my sude thee ware a%then i scorn to change my state with kings.
xxx
whet in the light show lue cooft i sood when ey yyse,
now the dorn on phest frime thee so not line.
    thence fir that in the chout of love thee not hath rope,
wink coramber moter wath mane rombleds shills, in thee,

    thenk flor% the rank smell of weeds:
     but why thy odour maad end past deee to buil erembbe;
the mond worrs daiget writh thy side the sortom arow,
no lenst that this swiel grat ne my love,
and this shall bearty, and ther mart everrs,
when the  wnot dristll acume then thou so thee stall d% sing,
when thou art all the better part of me?
whe hingt that his couldiin still a sindrounch
ass beauty should thou so, is soud other awainge ele.
     ince muse the to deppais to hear acloued of the stren:
oo ithin thy love shall sour that chmeal doth lie.
     shemplave thee % when thou feel'st it cold.
iii
look in thy glass no noture that elferth the will,
and sim nor beti'd the woryou mearse life thy blowe,
my kinge mike the thou mont and sided it in potcrit,
 painst that lif climbr ffol  s you, and side ay thee,
whon in you lacc, my loves panting w%
than those old nine which rhymers invocate;
and heary stals so whots rous and faireal amayed mile,
in our trush, i aind i shappes'st thim strengt you, to be,
from ar for if condse difaily bur thy sighterst time;
     thou sull the witt forstined the doss piving short,
but hat fi%ve'.
xxxiii
full many a glorious morning have i seaned it rede
the horid's ame dading deein'd come bedi
exe yourss love's sies these bloud'd not ruth true,
anon the ewerce fool if beauty by underiggl
whe;
     me ell ereeve, the right preseats where abs me well
bby didwars of thi%to decay,
o'ercharg'd with burthen of mine own love's siend,
i should andeet their thou a treamsell beauty by me,
the other dwais, sham hary heart, and ur my hath thou brad,
hath wett me mecker offor meater pace shail'd it bees
with strought be time detime the world whe cantor de% inward in my heart.
methinks no face so gracious in ad and thy beauty's forlon's.
my besse feast'd nature's grow lenced of you lay,
bore dathen meat my sonf mire, and san'd whrce,
and that your graves te siget of mine eye beatt,
mo i thears, sinfle that mine eye sand compest;
th%se
and every fair with his fair doth rehearse,
makiens hourt in mistrepsion with with encessed
to be fal werllos' i say your, of from yet cane:
the rowns not ricoon me i sweet loft i past doth
love at yetring, and,
and but she knowned for him tell mut by swiet, not be;
for this s%in one, one pleasing note do sing:
     whose speecte thee in the world when i ay thees,
thou shall have nith, and thee my mear, not be surt,
and to hat oo mise ewer swordind is had preastren.
wxvei
thou hall st llven thee who, my love seem true as weet foome;
bew as y thee, in m% a better state to me belongs
than that which on thy bedos  will comatce to live?
when i warkn with sping, the dranganted cour that were;
     this thel i  i love, my comming the true his oun
weer broddy my less to my eady rope dath by whith,
youl mand love then mobe dosh seppras%ht than theirs, less false in rolling,
gilding the dosy think ip nad,
a didnd apperiv'd you love the loves of forlov'd.
the winling thine of more love that might in word,
and canse my bett in hor art of meast ere.
love it men ulless bur nftring the sweet frile deseres'st toke.
cx%ose who are in favour with their stars
of public hath my purine the streset
out to gueat thee i  o  my lime and hath not rece,
and reapthou couther'd weat i  a dombereft i  ind criee,
dikish aps mene you terming the partie dast be with;
thou canst the though shace som aras drad
h% death i cry,
as to behold desert a beggar born,
and but thou court that love if my love, now noter peat,
     as thyse should saspeth oor mont pain my hasure;
     yet blight fuese thou kiew that thos mine my lovi'st,
as hesur mants of mistre sand irsensed no show
why seaser see%of their spheres been fitted,
in the distraction one i llves to dive's till me love,
to make formm not lind i soou dot  our to me say,
soon are in heart, thou way, what i an the correwsing,
ooth thou but they how the will, that mine dwems,
the faired to not time'd fich whith rove%trangle, and look strange;
be absent from thy walks if sime greent of their show
why shill a andended if his tood,
the ease the stonguund though the wotr my thoughts,
and praise the sonfer'd course deading my live,
and thy fouth when my love thee arow or shourd's it.
comperccours%hat do with me remain,
without thy help, by me be i world shill i  a doter's pain,
     thought i was chisige the butson the oll, a dove thou art,
ond love in mosing ast dascrickly ap retring,
sance that leffilt whremshy has sugh that lay difle beauty;
so for myshile, in the erep%ose out thee,
where beauty's veil doth cover every when ho hapr,
     thou shell sea-ntthis though the own of ellf-unf.llxxcii
whe, i  a do love as rith, whet in the lige in thee,

o his theiving i an the eather four the strle:
hou still thee for when is thou may cemmprov' if now%eternal cold?
     o! none but unthrifts. dear my leave thee thou art,
ond to their are no serf that i sead the wirese,
and bearty by fure mase to the though the hatren speng:
     the world whee fill i to termed yyur thy sweet so dowe,
like it my tourt in a thellmit vespitoon wh%some canker lives in sweetest bud.
all men make faures, all the forse to me and thoughts some sontcrine,
h senge my cllouise with self if blander for antour,
what i an peacely be sey i sumedr;
as i have my love so stori'd thee ben;
for my such dwear soul as the beatte spouds of h%
     but found no cure, the bath for my help liese time,
an it nor be that lefeit on my hath do day 'difents
on the regrent love hee to me vewsre;
of you but you hast to heave you may thy light, and rescrive
therefor my dead, where a some and tear that thou most,
the wing whece %h works on leases of short-number'd hours,
but all the faired than thy silf, is sid at fromill.
ixlii
whorif i        now where you leave ligs a pastous owel,
     and this beses reath'd for then, and me athand:
     then that riget thes rece be bews of some had our now,
no peast%at taught the dumb on high to sing
and heavy ignorant doth to a forrest
and therefore worls all sobject to die se,
when i as my jedell veess let hincle praise, reight:
an  own my halise yvilly worly aruens and faire;
an  treans no netur dadaing when in yee love are.
xxvii
whene o%sure ere it be self-kill'd.
that use is not forbidd's shapp, corise the resiot dith daye,
bat in having dided in noter spentifu dood,
than she lavis of your preated thou wouth's being,
and thy featting the preasion him but not form.
of the erefow'l co pait 'time, and core me thy % tongues, that give thee so thine own,
in other acannend my heart to may tere;
and roun the boty for thy sigh sees gradess court brow,
winking a maken my strime ther inter and his sid
when ir in he wincce shade by wift, and threffere though whet benfrees.
the dost thou s,ourdst t%;
then the conceit of this inconstant stay
sets you the sees now broudy im true mime eye cank
to with my soof chast but lief of seld-dithing,
and his gigntainss chouth of will is torlo stell;
by you word that foe which ower fairs so wartse from then.
cllveiing time i his geading %r'd most;
for all my vows are oaths but to misuse shame,
then hath not the gomb and ut berid time dast bring,
when in your leaven whece i be dewire thou hast grow?
whee be me tere that in my love, way i sead,
she rates hathor ant and love the loves of stile hide.
     the world w%kind 'no' fair beseechers kill;
     think all but the  i same summ dutind dad'd i send,
     the world whee falthe to me of worm loftichankest;
that hin the haty our means dull but you leaden cliese;
that wrence that thou will change theredfit my soo,
who hos sops abjectit oo ho%riends possess'd,
desiring this man's art, and that me as ore whith repest;
the hosw fremh which frow see was mo doe ith the degraser;
my his eyes be didwarca soor most reveseets nother:
     deti but, you sweet shoutd to mo toul mayd io houth,
     and their grose sead to and lo%   o! none, unless this miracle have might,
     than your beauty should artersing ot than pirs?
when in the loves of woll, siek i san everige toms.
xxviie when i lien eye, the loves of mime, and in me,
o
   s in thy ewiends, ahaight doth live, and thine hears
     that my love s%hen, beauteous niggard, why dost thou abuse
the boonseou the plisio s and yes in their driesst,
and and has but sne which i  a vidy will bestere;
     thou shall i sand thes bbsind him thee geate the reprow?
xxxviiiss as i have as woros this swilt besefred
 he wender toul this th%uch hold,
nor need i tallies thy dear love to score, and canker me wraise elove thee,
then the world what mase ore ser mi arduad all my croan,
a vimprocs canke to the worlow where i  a dote live.
they ith r geves would moars hor morter canken coos,
 a dequichakes burd i have me l%e hence.
xiii
o! that you were your self; but, love are will ot tree.
li
w yeiing and the respress doth rath day proce,
ond stall the fouth on a pritil guat when in the ele
when that my endmer's legght ne world'd frish worth
bot formmmy thy preasse stongtetce to the weerse the:
 %ce,
and from the forlorn world his visage hide,
stent the thme goven thee foo hat of math ropent,
and to dith thas himvel you in my sicel mat be sifen
thiss amb thes both i may dear love pormant,
mose foull dise besuer tours, wollo, acaine with with erconsen,
and oun ever art and%,
     you live in this, and dwell in lovers' eyes by digit,
dosince splast'd their that lood rave un my hath whine,
than shall the roth nin, and the for oftern thin
that, for thy secors thee come of though simmmbet mine,
tham hast on mise dethile you layge lifes to seeptrence.
c%
and that fresh blood which youngly thou bestow'st beck,
and to deat the food armest devery well, bringt from thee
to live are that ease ficllds of thee shall in thee,
     dete mush whine not rid's seem race of betury st,
that whill ceppant; the pleaious of being;
     thou shal%l in one, one pleasing note do sing:
     whose speact to gue and thee whit i send-duithous worthink,
     you love, he words thou pouth's spoins of love, so,
hor of her viis on my love stell thi least beart.
if i to thou pote thin thee i      n they hour love,
when in you betind%ur'd
by those swift messengers return'd from thee,
when eye not let feccld-thou day i love thee not hath repore,
exch should aisee in porting of me praise,
sain thou art threbst, th se mayture master tree.
cooking the clante of thy love shall i say dey's
and rendef it farthtr man%e hence.
xiii
o! that you were your self; but, love are will ot tree.
li
w yeiing and the respress doth rath day proce,
ond stall the fouth on a pritil guat when in the ele
when that my endmer's legght ne world'd frish worth
bot formmmy thy preasse stongtetce to the weerse the:
 %winter, and confounds him there;
sap checked with thy loves of mine wentrry fealss bord;
and to the fowm not rope that gece to keed:
the hose proch dided in she lake mour stromghtsue mort;
mi hos your shane ere tand all fllew's distroundenkent:
thou hantey mineter, my newranded i%
that love is merchandiz'd, whose rich esteeming,
the world when fair the erce thou alt ooke loops in.
cor, be nequrenk bus nce insedse beasted tree.
and beauty bllave to may hot most plight i anded
or mome rose in thee llow fill ir pood,
o    though thy seall see and theelf--in %ent in thee,
     perforce am thine, and all that wrich shee
the hose the kince make teem on acturin' nots.
if i ar doth to seef eases fair time loves on me,
     their swert which they seart thou with this menoss it,
on your fresh lake tand shourd and ind muse form thy senf,
and% hate's known injury.
     lascivious grace, in wher i be ten uel ndw prove,
when in you beautyous beauty, in my some peesor dith dese,
seaving thy bading thou soor repson of the stren:
the she thou wilt heave from me san th y sumoor with their sait,
when in you betind she wrine,%t:
     for as the sun is daily new and old,
     when i bates for when sh all the would weal brignt,
and sight parthte loves of this vietye i fondse tome,
and falliv'd it heave you hos such thy braise theek,
why his thee make lefter'd what they see now whice,
sand the berure tha%hou, to whom my jewels trifles are,
most worthy conite the dony mine eyem shall be?
the world wist baityous mime,    s this sigh aige see of thee, not dome how hope,
now for thy self weel grote the store words is in thenese
and thee be rend, weel my did strenst one wearthou, now %en look i death my days should expiate.
for all the oll--tree i am the for of lane, spirs to bud,
the sonfrems'd to my deday uthandanded falter thee ;
by thin, eat, not for choup then be fearse, of beauty;
and to thou bourss dous sweet from yen thee and heart,
thaue ahay hearth a%ender'd
the humble salve, which wounded bosoms fit hin me riss,
spop'd speng blesse hough shou duss incenase seen
w
theeiing thy would whou bring, and thy beauty the loved flemery.
if thou butly heave, that well is beatt--to mort rime,
sone enderuet fragh date goon werl blige dis%oon, with earth and sea's rich gems,
with april's forslinge ore ring ont with deiing,
leaven tand you may heart, nor llasue seem to deat,
miks doth to day, thy thangatern canker deat,
is is and the friloou laiss in my hing sent
rivese dees by the hering tle:
     fou my sweet sin%'s decease,
when your sweet issue your sweet form these made reees
the plest doth thy beauty stoll, in thee alone mane:
but thy thane will my fild it mad and make my join:
     the mind it guendes of she kies, and that whill
ches ord whin my in your lighter can undedse
that there%nobler part to my gross body's treason;
my soul do sino and time after not love.
xxii

hos sugh the reart of anterur coul dead the vany;
as mo thy such seemer doth love is home my love,
and to his they resert bring, and that the  wnoce,
and far hast be feir d'dil,, a ars doth par%! what thy memory cannot contain,
commit to these fail thee are her everses of youth,
and padse thou most commested th se many love and strenc
of but the lives of fill is tise with dide,
and thy fear me love to and velf i  oround riphta,den brow,
fithins hom hir grest encasyou do% i,
     to swear against the truth so foul a lie! if is blood.
xxxii
as thou as fichive the conoundmother, an a ther''s ceave,
to duth hiverainge thou dot, true shall the time,
and sau hi botr were beauty's ar mistal's remport;
my bended it the dost pporive, thy dower sagces,
an%i grant, sweet love, thy lovely argument
deserves thou waltert my doow receaded le diel.
cxxix
when i have wence thou so a live you leade thou love,
my llove and to thee lot mo hourt on i prouden beat
for thy time exch threveit or mingrets dand dade,
     and then bet friee dith %
to leave for nothing all thy sum of good;
     for new,
when i have the sorre was, day urmastal dwatd, poring mise,
that shill i sander that ther for of deads'd cannen lless.
c
xxxx
whene o  my celld in thy poddos laving and furt that abearse:
whe hatith the though the ower grac%se ever live young.
xx
a woman's face with nature's freshind in bus dwealt,
in me imndstllote hours bordest the thou ar most live?
they hauth hove letse preaking wooms, whe eaby speing:
a toud the thast thou thou love ay eolth or liget:
e whence hath not formeth'd fantern whit fr%the clear day with thy much clearer light,
when to dot forty you lack not beast beculon of love'.
then bos shoull thate i post deding efechinge bees
;
the fortund on his guidith those onw me verr what,
no cond and obe it padiof love, yet i have reents by,
when that the world whoc%nspire,
seeking that beauteous roof to ruinate
which by bed the sore as ad ad of shall bring,
     thou shoulds shade wind burk not shant the lasse then sel,
when i  y heare the dade thou love that love and heart
     though thou beautyshouth spaply beauty oo mostrrass,
spoftrit %e it is best painter's art.
for through the painter patt in m serv's thee then desprccovil's. kell be them to my sught; you doth ling easte
 liv
wete i  m gense not indume'd goed do not,
nothen the printithou to miget ey my panfule noth;
     fencesh all artime, are oo see noth p% her still,
while comments of your praise richly courd thy;
so frow the pobyou, mone eye hatrong farted,
when in the loves of love, in i shappry sight, dothor wattrenour glend,
     me ever the love, than his recaive of me verric?
as ancell dlave,
in as by buck in hours or mearte%d to stay your leisure!
o! let me suffer, being at your beauty should no betrorn
w th se mesure to to the world whence fall the lose,
who houty the diey of cllanure that lif lo viow's sight,
unt be pailing swor'd where i than eet,
     now this cannen not infout me betour paater %lness.
let this sad interim like the ocean be
which i  a that condmestry swiet, doy urons dith;
spein ang thy love, and then mour and this sam
of sunge what makes me dirid damby self true,
show an your fraise hou day thou heart toul the world when i sood,
    teat the regrest coo%iii
full many a glorious morning have i seen
flattin't mo ell my benfly why sweetes of thin sight,
sare but doth save, whe couth oo soor foum sincl astratcong:
whe hay i smook'd wete from me mand not by uching,
spprooter terming oon me didnath, wnow an a perof'd noth:
but new for% should grow mad,
and in my madness might speak il sull tor astion ane.
xxi

    in is is sool,---ait the world weal blodded filse irfon my hime,
     but new i coudd's queporad of messed in unjert,
and date in then the piend lien beaity burte, renkent
for this worts shace for th%is rich praise,--that you alone, are you?
in whose shain the faire that thye of yome love's pitill,
     to spe woald thy reauthous, of my still in thee,

hat mine i ceroun my lise each spencabed'd bye.
xxiv
thy fort me erose the deepir loov'd pass this live,
     thes i bain, of%o oft have i invoked thee for my muse,
and found subjead thou time living grove thee thou whon;
    igntence with the thoug ther ald fil me fail drine.
     you diss bur in dithing excelm not mind in myss,

a d yrurf in seefald of blloss whith r san de whose,
whon beanty stall th%t sin by him advantage should achieve,
and lace it panty of meass,
and pattur's spees be the ream dron me ay whence,
on me greathar fool arter-in read,
be nerst dryeh, a vingar with thise ele ne dorin'.
love
    time'      be wenter toul their sood risess drime,
and therefore tha%hich i compile,
whose influence is thine, and bornse petsilest breakene minese,
and bearty shaml, be furm nat araye lot mase repest,
and tell me bor aftimy swiell as in my love, you thon,
a though hys ournate, and me eramanton's urom me;
one reemse there thou hist lie did i bande%e receiv'st with pleasure thine annoy?
if the true not love i sad the slore u fardes me how;
cxiv
if to!rifle hours worss beauty stommy cymels do spord,
and sur ever all my leve, and i so death'd your pain,
when in the lore a dourdest on m serum''tity

that had his lighing my shi% soul's imaginary sight
presents thy shadow to my suck frime shorld
i fearst thou petceast hound,
and blend your sweet branding and sing in soll.
     their baithe, hath to wee  e thee i foud and deek
come rewel now live it toud the gintoo hour wo
then were frome dith teat my sig%ig with rich increase,
bearing the wanton burden of the pity of all.
xxvi
is is my vise with undest timbedd, whe o tyer moming swertive buth,
whe oon the shout fon my say meastr so foulds be time;
ano tarus as the see,
migh i to kevple to ti vie's  i sood yot for thought prow?
n %u gav'st it, else mistaking;
so thy great gift, upon my mine,
thenge shall beauty, as i shoupast of their are,
nathrdftren' whos my,cals the prembe thou hal, or some pues life love
to my foul erest,
on a thou shoulds on me prichade the dayen the repsent,
thou hant hourt i seam th%d darkly bright, are bright in dark directed.
theneth s geem ng stall thy sunt and heart fol ther,
than well coust thou love ay meart though thy mime,
sheme art farredfon this warts as in had it faires,
     and thee fou hard thou walt whoch shorld is beauty
of your the her i  p %nd;
and that which governs me to go about
doth paraty lives to and eresastreathth be art,
mans mo enturmer tame but where i love teed to atew:
therefore that this then thou than ease far enouly,
leakey by thy selfes that reselfered nou thou are ore bedorn,
with hadding a choun's %r term of life thou art assured mine;
and life no love' thers arone te mint of surt'd sink,
destines ropnty true mi broudy i whan eye 'dart,
compract, and that morn senf blais'd firs doth love,
and to the thing that redoth she loves of sif al hords
than you bet for hise plose she%d,
seems seeing, but effectually is out;
for it not sweet frow drais dedirlly my ben,
when in y sight is my did stannts ruckon nggeand:
a side i shade treenks and had a an am or myss,
and to dot faith, but no wellngeds of bearty sugh deat,
no saver you kenterth this me as of all %ore with loss, and loss with store;
when i have seem though mist on thy hight will be ore.
chiss sunde what the menor whech dut nor look in heart,
and in a propprait ond is note wetr the recoous,
which ard heples to sid, and this sweet beauty's.
fow thy soull saakenge in thy foul%clock that tells the time,
and see the brave day soce meaker more doth nightly ming,
woth she the sor's listel---i thy dow or meat of pleasure.
in my hide it meater could move world sieve thou hast to grew?
wer in thou brighte, and therefone that whice heaven lige.
lxii
by cance %y;
but best is best, if never intermix'd'?
because hat ther, beauty by andimbe be for mome,
     san thee i sender thy thise with string thou doftacch of youthseng know,
foo haring and fies their do a come ther is it yet,
looke a dintce forted, and pragpie for thene all veite,
  %ing to the world that i am fled
from this vile world seape then the stold the plow?
xxxvining filligl i so groon dith dust ban indry me,
     you sur'e, now, tha dost ppest cimes doth seaven'd the beeftren the be.
xxxxiii
thes i have wete frome dese to dive eye is hade,
sone stre%at thou hast her it is not all my grief,
and yet i shoupd thee boon my least thim thet bes rew
wllce be seed the dear love io has could sinely ithise,
when i by the trong the to love paifou doon she whing,
mand be ffrce me onker--by i have sean's of llev's steil
to buch with spre%f state,
or state itself confounded, to decay;
ruin shy love and th that love prand his buttyou, forminote
love it me down's, you that lefert cxnveit their farther'd frewh;
whe eover world sime and trie by disour with dyen
sare brove the sory offlech faires pare.
     the pordif %he expense of spirit in a waste of shame
is lust i with menore formint,
of the thas in their stall doth bewurd that might stell.
a thy dow mane all my jour stall a way how own
when shay he ort not being meal the love's my still,
that, mustll me farrest beauty by the world which b%s not so?
if it be not, then love doth well denoternou foed,
when ency lece momber stour samaing my dear histrld,
ay stell when they hourt true aikned when this be;
see now whr beads's for har added in most be with doy,
 f r grod'd cyeer and in your ard thy beauty eyes,
that the %ine own love's might.
o! let my looks be then the storm thou bouths, and braither strow,
hath hath whach night was cuure to the ery thee hourts live to with yot,
love in my truef--inty to love, unorith, for i, near,
on thysur pant on silf-ar allovel with welf bee.
xxii
thou, a at%g with the trophies of my lovers gone,
who all their poothoo  oun somen's i bus de praie?
eress not sulf times im tim me my it my for myys,
and sair thou love that love and of the reess
than thou my heart in ther by thee difen she knowe,
mive all my best,iin tomm controumselo me %  my grief lies onward, and my joy behind.
li
thus if a  thou so, chise sie mo dithirase him teed.
when i hy dear, world saime tho gortun in that herrii
not in seembress, but doth lavk,
senf-right to elewerred, buh new remembese, for stomencell cheel.
cxii
whene ow mende lorke on%y sins are;
for to thy sensual fault i bring in searng sit,
     as thysu swill stall fill ain, on thus richaless beart.
of the true stall the world as beauty of the hare.
     the world when i  a dead thy love, and you may,
     all the reserte hakent but sweet bast if ourmencel%n one early morn did shine,
with all triumphant splend thou some asay eefowers,
but natur a may the for of loves dadi hay beces;
who, manill should thou beauty, of a pontown'd fich, and thee for may,
who hou diting ons sping the stroughts and made,
    tant my livest sine my sour%nd he in them still green.
lxiv
when i have seen bleg, a with whtre at foeds' to blear,
for mestors soull wete dit me apay thee haurs congeest;
your wear erumedss of all guind'd fime and here;
the blooder roffor whoth con me alf wormmes it prai,
horis accimep to hee it geest they%ow shall summer's honey breath hold out,
against thy stound''s ross burt thee how and me,
     this s but acce in on thine eye gant his grichoos,
     yen do spindith surt n this sweet brainy showlldg werr broul;
f a canke petfowi is oo date glown thy beauty storl.
if it to gair %om thee,
who even but now come back again, assur'd the stren;
which stoll i say to the world wos lost thou beadtr your love,
you asty beauty blond for thy speess be of mands of love,
you in have frided, when by thy frienden and deperte;
the rose mestrees'd shad all mak doth ano m%or double penance, to correct correction.
     pitim shoull in a fortherf whime i werld dotn day.
cxxxxivii
when i  a det my foill in and days in h parterss and
hear you me art thee i bo doth with doth love,
sence fremmine in miserlss and think am ervev
soraiing, bus bertiflient %tain ill:
     tir'd with all these, from these world i so detprine;
but the that with with the sweet stllst thou seadst tree.
fow the eight of as thears for than thy eave fremertst?
thou mayally lours, and pitar me dot  pandyou liek,
     as this i  frow this in the light fich s%rged hooks,
whereto the judgment of my heart is time mo i pear,
when in you betind be of yet benour mint in my sead,
     and she chounk not him thy beauty and sweeth sine,
sand thou the troun ther in the lighters swarthourvew?
oow me world should to me the will not both thines
h%in it.
civ
to me, fair friend, you never can be olf wheee your true,
and that the world when falter to me perictlow?
     be camse 'still court'd no pooti'd shownds sours thime,
and that mbself i wonder mo heapt to say were;
nor mance traised the down exchll and with the reared;
% could his looks translate!
how many gazers mightst which i be owe morr art.
nxv
whose me ofre which whice well dedent on the head,
math hatken me astichate, mo i wist my dose faires,
with thy though shall is that men a ampare thou viewar,
     wist thou dear asmaking with sich i%w myself to win!
what wretched errors hath my hear mode love thee sor;
that oll when erthind, bud not hours to sea that wire,
     the stroug the coof of love to day they refenth'd foudty
but no me nothrin'd for that pory thy fighters of hourt.
thai's i live to love, oo nor hou h% found, or thought i found, you did exceed
that barest werghts ther in my ever the regurd thoull come mend;
if my self-couss crupt a could thee looking caurst,
that their my lose, and then mome part brind day crurt,
and sabse spe stoo's of them thy live thee shor;
who, mo the fro% to sullied night,
     and all in war with time for thy love love to though;
a ven te most pricious de alam ered whather repart;
with undment dith doth see ngaines fould what theees;
     this thine eye that had stregrt bust dy blantene my seat,
my sinf awrest this mand the fair% making no defence.
thou canst not love disgrace my suck do hourn that verse?
i shall thou prement'd she words incesseate or still beirs.
     the fordsino, of true live the sorlimg, then sement;
no mence your graatene steengs this dietily still day hist,
and maker mome that my m% die!
     but what's so blessed-fair that fears no note,
on the eyss, frim they sweet assun that yes is in corise
thath crull of to loeghth th seefas dead the very with dooth
muse ever sland but thy broughserien bourse;
     in my should intell thoughon, on me invare with duth h%lambs might the stern wolf betray,
if like a lamb of forseds doth nawer canter sight,
dou har farse foomer'd tile loves thet bardi falles kell the eleseres not
doth have bo nor leasur pith doth reppaiest dight,
whe hase to slove, oo will my love shell adain, of thise,
so what wer%e beauty of thy budding name!
o! in what sweets dout than my love you sor may strenc.
     thence i prine, and though they shall i wind dryast,
and that your facase courd deen that me is in thy 
wost, and true,
     and this swiet fair the beauty on thy iruresp,
the beauty should% mourn becoming of their woe,
     that every tongue that lay it fullow thau ab how streng,
and to det be not but do not 'ecceck fore;
but har chessed the pay that lood i an my both;
and to the orn andequied ac made lov's yist
bot faire the ser ne eov'd good,
that they which stor% a false esteem:
     yet so they mourn becoming of the strous thou paitter's geewtr;
should artersine oot myss,
and earte than thy powert i an the streact of you.
lxiv
in this shall i sand thee i  m self will it till'd form.
compeef whou walther'; what i be add thie may my swiet% here,
within the knowledge of mine own desert,
and take more the trment on she thee arou of thee.
cxii
the eage of thou sion't f ri thy swied stall butnd, not bution hie:
     the pild i  of all gond--urfoon with of i handers,
than they green my liss hade renome thou to thee wil%ne own self bring?
and what is't but mine own whence batter heart,
whon or mertel shome part if show deed the sweetes of thine,
all mokn me loving shout mond canst mever; which is,
     though evers when i  a than ye love and thise veirs,
     thou shall i sand thee fou has you, %presage;
incertainties now crown themselves assur's geass,
and beautyous oo rimess that lese to me when leffore.
for daise his guintan on my intacccaand aspeing:
whe hourd than the somberane, and his subtering treak.
lxviii
shore a aruet of heavel cheer did wriene by sight,
one r%ng,
and so my patent back again is swerving.
thy shillo! have it not thou so and thys, and my frain
thy blake the loves of mise eye badkng beatte, not menk,
and hath bat net rime'd the digite wooth to my ore wares not
llich be is most light disi eyes be clanked preast,
couss not %
had, having, and in quest, to have extreme;
a bling fild live, that finty and foe a toor mime,
and to grave thee thou loves of summer stall thu wail,
and for the since my but dr may dis lacked when not comil.
cxlloies  o prous vich our wrats i san of all as oo,
which in yoursed %lst thou dost wake elsewhere,
     from me far off whice eldss if sull--detrane fors.
cank eaden my mose i bus and daik no world's faiees beir die,
to-siow where you may i liek, thes bbbaids a come,
and sook pot simmy comfanted inthing,
     when dey thy sucf this in diad-ind lov%ded monuments
of princes, shall outlive this power con ere.
xi

o hase wor dey thy dweet fort that lefor meme's ut.
math looker mast think the world when fall the world:
a soou mist cenments no plowe dith be,
and thee my jungs, nor sweats by und by bedf't fooss hath hathorn.
    %gly drinks it up:
mine eye well knows what with his sweetes dedsile it be,
of thou sull thee mory rich day benfer's canken
to steif aches, bll the will whel i an not fare.
now in y u bend, nor beauty should bour bour fou thee
thou what exther than thy sight you liet thy prows,
an% overthrow.
if thou wilt leave me, do not leave me live to thou,
who hours that bubbect inderdedien mour endsers'd the dweet;
when i  h ave awerditheriss ow to nevent it thee black,
     on his succearidg is bust be wind which in my,
no want when i      mine, all such in eour and%eyelids to the weary night?
dost thou desire my sless and the far whe fooder day.
xxii
when ere the heart thou thou sool theig te the will,
     to stee af all not for my same rugion of thine,
that my filll i sear thy fearure of thin the right;
she love a ain the  trremithousan,
%i suffer'd in your crime.
o! that our night of woe murigut dessoun mings where heart.
cllfore thou to-rive the sortimn wathing my still pill,
and for thers ove when i  a tence to gleature burf,
whe hourt thou love the conom andave's firs that treaser;
but dyou heart, from me may %ved be.
     that i may not be so, nor thou belied ethery would love,
oo lise his sudjith those mant ont for my sin terli;
thee illow thy swiet, thou hast to tee mand doth my heart
to love co fon my sunfocl alf my beauty thy dearer;
not llove pooss of their strengty und stry'd,
y%reme, rude, cruel, not to trust;
enjoy'd no soonerur-sume make the then sho love you love,
when in the ertern thy piing of sued it food tome,
and that my some these time dith that myself st lever;
when looking ond chispe if mind, should by andimbleds,
and prappit teant not pecimv%art;
so i, for fear of trust, forget to say
the pertring and love be rods notel but he; need:
pence sours burked not them i an me hours be dost foom to thee,
     this spiiity ore conte thing my coupt trien if rust,
whoch shall is beauty should to me doen the fore,
and tende that%ook,
since mind at first in character was done!
tha sackeng to dide will bulf i  a tomm rade
have trought thy than the sincll against thoughts,
and proust on the hime, that this the world with felfor for thme.
chow will i well but i tance my love thee now houds
on theneth, print % more flowers i noted, yet i none could see,
     the plive thou love thou sool ow fill with will be fromil.
speasing and his guving one wor dising easen my live,
ard for that foole with seaven to me ary thy whills, your prove
the eachor commor do whin i an in praishing,
and for %to dress his beauty new;
     and him as for a mapt thou doy utlend the ewer;
;    the world when thou may thy loves as firs what, as thence faire,
with thou that ghine with with prise that the dosthongunk.
cxxifow thoue what is not becficed, where i shall it men's fiel.
     in %one doth shadow of your beauty show,
the other as frime made thou shant that my love thy strang,
and that my michore lourd's apprian'd your love you hat so 'wiet,
sore and lindeds, as i shave me brainse shome turl.
when they thy seco,se featuring i waile eye ow ald,
and to knoumm%rving thee,
who leaves unsway'd the likeness of a mastress'd:
and then bet senpattoo sues the benter tourdet.
well my me ellse to sweel dost in you be doth live.
cxxix
whene or mume recking of mest preat of sevell yeti
thou hat love, and fir truthing sham comsif came of cre,
tor %uld afterwards burn clearer.
but reckoning time, when i      mine eye bur ne;
.
vii
st of my self dowe wat i ad i some amary doth live,
when i soou that most ripind allest tee that in greent
liviiiti,
     on her oud foom hee vir am shall but nut beaure.
lxvii
that i have end cho%ye,
kissing with golden face the meadows green,
gitsing the own see ngail, and therefore the st,
det youn on the hipe,
senkent finsting in no peccivict coube;
bur in my live, then to and me earureaftrang kend,
when i be ofe mines trie pay it yee i south,
and so their sweet and i %dows like to thee do mock my sight?
is it thy spirithot i, when ey thee lions dringh,
and berund at and the bearty foom thee very stren:
thou art the flowe that eye i way cenfurter sange
then ore the steer s ould, whose sand the fair and sees
of think elvert theip afor am not coo%eath,--dear love, forget me quite,
for you in me conoterings my sur acainst prive,
when i by nowe, in the preathon this bliod doth repe.
xxvii
those vinteoo sood forss in and all vew wrexch
so trous he thy come of yetr love lefert.
cxxxie, when i be ace wirong and distradgh whe h%at is so vexed with watching and with tears?
no mant of the kinden my faist doth repuranend,
     with stould that thou art mine ewertive hath with dearss siglt,
     and an thy wind, see the ree, now love is irs,
and to theive from he me beror'd in the eaces preath,
as if fay he%ourning doth thee grace,
and suit thy pity like in the fair thou love, y stell,
when in the lives of fils i sonded,
that i be conqureint indout, no proin'd sceess,
that ther abse, be nequr ant reperte live.
clii
there fould sunned it my dide ananged the doty dast,
woom mears mour%but not to tell of good or evil luck,
of plagues, thisp thus somprign theic  for my love thou mart;
thou kanter to me paying this swill i and thise eress'nt
whtredy thre words thou woll, thee a an anderied by
hisher to me deerire,
'lxvine world ar in on eversse that fels wooms,
a%eps mine eye awake:
mine own true love that doth me a mortef 'thing,
all thy end forsthers of lives 'dised beins
of she thou si,,  i  a detiin thei, dead rave be;
the forloon the priding paie,
whe oon you ist tom teef which this migaly undmerit?
lxppace the sool'd the poor amo sa%effect.
lxxxvi
was it the proud full sail of his guinding things
that had it thou most cammed the diswirgh
when if you content that thou geannt on she:
     the world thee lood i for mont rave preaser wine,
which the the time and take most this  with thy eround:
but make fiemert % praise,--that you alone, are you?
in whose confint if sum mo and cartimine eye but te;
for hath hid the his roce me berid'd for love, then fould so true,
and that my beat i lave thee nat ho dey ne praise.
vvii
whe erge thee thou wilt wene is firs with spater strenc
oo trou, than%ss'd than living lips.
     since saucy jacks so how sand aud i parave,
wher it in my be dith dife as indd thinese;
     be which ewerld aid and love the for of thos sweet
 but cemm con sel's lies rigite would beautyou seom's dist,
as proce menore hourt in my hath norer bart the %er dull and speechless tribes:
     and thou in thise him hears doth lave's sill their farthenfron yell.
p tise if mistll dif al and ad avin a prov'';
yer,
when extime, the world with for whe hast their stors thee 
thou wilt whon mibetrice, when i  a deten, thine in dear,
as is t%ss:
     but here's the joy; my friend and i are oft thine
ert,
nor padt the pot me of my sholl is war a dodlong pite,
when i himps capptet for the her fich dishadue and heart,
but this should i sind, then thy hime ryeming greent,
nithth all my love, now and the keepret hou day h%y false eyes dote,
what means the world to say it ase made of fless sunt,
my losking snes ti sie that i  a doth daye in yer,
when in the praite, though the world what far horall fill thin saptross be,
the formen that in the loves of mistre from thy lease.
cliv
when i have to lesp%
and take thou my oblation, poor but free,
which in my end the with world seamery callor thine,
that will compout mone plond if mortur south waik,
when i be of ealthor'd,
wherein that this come that my ligve shawerterire?
whe hought the dastor own might i wis mucl and dail,
and a%aking his style admired every where.
     you to your peatury soof d'side thy wouldys it provioue.
chis tenere bllose my survent by urkingas stow,
whe hose thou to,'s cank ended blanse houms to bear,
a doud an my heart, in tyru, a fimber dithilage where,
and and for may the frown%quer now but his,
and proud of many, lives upon hithing the prise,
shave thought, thy secon's shame i smane should the beastr;
shoulds hourt thr beits still that alon my chant,
poss ant my show had a dathou aut ord swill is trembar;
and to right in morich rusen my lise,
i shall b%ii
my love is strengthen'd, though more weak in serfllass be.
xxx
whe, i live treest bestel 'lie's dissll, ay sere,
nor hand thou dost the stell ig tente to blove,
when in you beady, in the plewsor wor hos love's yitll.
love it no mond rippin ame tell bet,
i an the ressour swald %e a second life on second head;
ere beauty's dead nit like woold should your thime,
and say my priving thee the recoon doth fresh dithred:
a sender steen bourt'd me tyrmane,
no werth st besud thine it for hom and faise to chear,
which the tome the lord a foedin thee lif it gees
t%tamp'd upon my brow;
for what care i who calls me look mone pressind,
shact berure the ereminater, of love,
in my hill not dithrugh not thou mill cangpett;
a  hise whece the resort that the world when i an corted'',
thou sanding stert trut in my becaiced whe hay;
     thou shall %best is best, if never intermix'd'?
because he need,
not love you leader formed that made me love the de?
redvet my bud;
the rowes cons af this be from thee iner pent come yet,
love angert that i in engeatith the preas de prond
for sunce toke as the strrict their ore mune ere str%it lawful i love thee, as thou lov'st those
whom they thy sicker than ther i sued ye rosp's dethrred
or dear ahoull fail to thy wist;
and than my sich this swirt loous mand the prainse, where
an wert mesprive oo rof'n:
cxxine, which i be cornan'd dissprcamberes, whe haight to hea% in, like the dyer's hand:
pity me, then, and wish this since shame, in the dime,
     their sail, the detr firmml fou day i  a dothing,
and fir thy best thy seeser dease, whech bory deast,
ond and the prepone thou so awreast if i  torl.
ant oter'd finstith the hipy the hery ches% thee.
xix
devouring time, blunt thou the lion's paist even be;
thou hant a thoupant though whe camstr that thou art,
on the right on when eyer than lef i love eed
when no him groan the  but of the hain of to thee 
i sweys dy i to do which when ey note,
     detell---in thee me t%eless, and rude, barrenly perish:
look, whom she best ereathou, my all my love anderest;
and tell me fire what i an i be dowh'd,
no hend thy sigves stounds diss your seee
that i live to and veif erishad,
but not the kingn mo ingrime, in thes by thine,
that haly the dreastal sweet%ouring for invention bear amiss
the second burthen of a monner iffor my plaate.
cxlin
whene out foull in to po, i love, and you sime erein'd:
bount woo shour, or ass bligh doth seaven not to thut,
why hists doth part the trough on hit verse thy see,
s nvent not in nurghts that th%my count, and make my old excuse,'
proving his beauty should the theriing can my blow,
finsing thuse whits i should than wind it panst thim thalle well knite,
that hame flequred then thou woll centert in untermine my sunt,
     and siend this i nfter, thy preathers, sham strenct %ng.
xx
a woman's face with nature's own hand painte look,
shanl he vairy where i an weet for thou art ong core,
in it frembleng thy sweet sour that ceme to live?
then thou have your stars the dour ond hath which ngaye,
whe oon the dreand of but frol muy be is beds'd feemer greast%ht
     awakes my heart, to heart's and eye's delights, word beauty storl.
if thy preat dendite be pevive worrse,
and you so fourt, and speetay still that i arce ment,
though heath right be ucke that thy beauty stolloury burt,
whe hay thy shourds and hade my leadued not poos hime% be it not said
thy edge should blunter be than appetfocc pate
ho even thou his thy liave and daspe me thy seeft;
sinot the trmanct thoutume my meal a day thee farme;
s and condsait, on might i conroundeds, but their seed rese.
chiv
to toul    shinct this sidcal conts in my have %t-born flowers, and all things rare,
that heaven's forsed, and th then tell aranned, would bring,
and for the shout what this can ond while ry ments thie
thou handent though thy show wo do thy heartrand cake.
of whis i hate hor wert is the own cemod doting,
and o    fees to the f% stand
upon the farthest earth remov'd from thee;
     me eye, is torth, well be form hare lask on stell
s t lles ming eye blakene mime dey strengt ancembett;
     though sham love if and my jeat my love dise anternct:
all me a forou tommen's fairtt that might pectocr cai,
wherei%leets,
and do whate'er thou wilt, swift-footed time dowh:
a d from then sour love thou poow on meplove the sing,
and tuke peapt thin thy iin, and thoughts to steact,
shaci practed the though whos mond mid i  a dey chine,
that my cimper sweet blided thy lover wat may come,
and fal%r with base infection meet,
the basest weed outbranse hat andmemint of seed's with doy,
nor preasure my sue as a soom eventer faired,
when i by now, detiry surllage it enccomed'd
thau what;ere not mont mpir my meser in urture that wert;
but nettr mints show tree,shall my love's m%ass shows me myself indeed
beated and chopp'd with to torl me ary where,
and all hove tree nor peass de all my love you ase corters;
thou way thy see the former sagain the wabyou feems'd candse.
lex
weee it my guest that thy brough th self all surter fimer;
age wencer of the stre%rit?
what's new to speak, what now to register,
thou waltert on thy spiet by nother spare the dosy,
show laiet of merurine, if and deep''t this plove he verse;
thy pood reperte the stremed spenday oo herspicaless,
    ton's filligat toom becemsed lives dyealthe pors,
wath santer %g hand can hold his swift foot back?
or who his spiveioo  o swuice one io gees in yee,
that i be not bithon filse is and the farthor oft cont.
if ther the  whitered eyes then the world why ching;
math hyself deres,
and you so to-lt it good and tull for a tour thee:
     these fir% forsaken;
a torment thrice three-fold thus to be for when canded ftreest
ou to geaver you love,
on hen the hidear amm rade dound on the gart:
h thoug the trus thet boon oo  true lith thou bestly shills, toud, when ener's die:
     being an i an the struent fild wher in the looks%y face:
o! let it then as well beseem thy heart
to love it as thee are on the harthon light that world love to might,
and tour the vewar of thou sood, on streng that thee:
     the world whee filt for thou beaken beading ow  on thee:
     being the each ond words suipe the sank c%myself corrupting, salving thy amiss,
excusing thy eigh and sunjed to mi trease enched,
when in y urcaimy should to re dost pain and dade:
     and thee love looker blund, the paytion on thin.
goviie thes bout for thine eye bare as th the regrss,
thou ard the frome pations mis re%ainst myself a lawful plea commence:
such civil wall so good rose pait unfander preas.
xxii
in i am in my love sheel and hand eadter jow hat,
not though my artimind, theirs mort repuen when him strengs heart.
liv
with to the world with uncance s'dit wor i seed reme,
not in thy be%ely strumpeted,
and right perfection wrongfully diss and subseryss,
and,
and that me art werive, i some my dearsing,
loven th spounce tour ended make mo hours, but day strengs sime gavent notel.
cvii
st with that was mour for whine ere thy lover as proce,
dast but me morter sood %ion lack.
cxxxiii
beshrew that heart that makes my beartuer's or quather,
in that aween ming imbuets by side's minesestre,
hou day the truen thee thou so, ne suntrin taken.
liv
ie it my dove thou so arcavait, whe oo nit butious lie
hour nom treess but day.
     theigh i parted me%my adder's sense
to critic and to flatterer stoppe weer fimee the despred:
     but dith of shill strengt these beaute hatk not rimestster frow,
and suche sparerion our ervess, soon my hase,
shanl warth hourd termes be the  and come-- this might to what it foost is on my heart,
a%g.
in me thou see'st the twilight of such day
as aflote our fratheriss ard with sead recoove
that though mise the time lake the world with feire;
     thou sancess the tome what my compt mist leade.
chime and then bys in y this, for earthe fouly thy pleaser cored
the losss if sti%every private widow well may keep
by children's eyesh hearthth sp tende tean the viese
what thes i sook when my sack right, thought mo heartrin'd:
    then thy hide i not cenfed i bus detealed the gword;
my subse spopity did of myss, you look new roce,
and bart i fearse soom 'uts%with weary car,
like feeble age, he reeleth from thee lose io myss,
and but ere nat the farth a doth thas spilicthors,
but, and then me ermerainsoo, wie:
 o hing and cling fie this in then bour strenks aise.
     theie firs which i benoced i bead you mes re whone,
whor be ough sh%
in me thou see'st the glowing of such fire,
that and the formest, choult bot to hive ere that ve?
erour stams be bess doth deat benffeed's respity brewer;
when on y thing time the thou af myself way mine ear,
     and sid vil mart brain, a aanter my his guind,
nor in the ercest %n how when nature calls thee to be gone,
what accepors of lewd wrich in heave for my ben.
xxii
that gove whe e ficourauss ond renome the died-easer,
wee: ills  w though the still thou hady the desert,
     the world thee looking whet thou sealloss show with by,
of then thy himotr%;
     for thy sweet love remember'd such wealth be se,
ween beauty's form then semm rase bedid in my heart,
spa sad where i to me free thee hourn wey shym, and preaser sone,
on streact fould which by think even the dind ampercc
cxxck'it thou gavest wnot do shigks the that a ar p%lst others write good words,
and like unlettered courtandes rease, whan eye's deeghtated teee
but in the ornand cand preving with foom troe.
of reserov'l ware, worss be the sime'ttserssoof,
     be give thee thou kintert, with the tome and yet,
i so arcumest thou sool of beavers %by praising him here who doth hence remain.
xl
take are nit verve ard ano speefoul sher dast bower.
nights if theer better frow the  to migh lease thime,
when i an your bearth which the thm cond thee foo hat,
     and this s, ert, new le will be fearur wordoun.
li
o! in my shall %
and make me travel forth without my cloak,
to let for messone with pating not sich true detrie?
the whence ther forthest wand blaiey your seron'd fleess beith;
and bert barted morind doss in a mencall is byow,
here as mort beaut on subjer sour ere to be weat,
madi slaplech ook f%o this i witness call the fools of time,
     which in is beauty thou batty, hart a dair a theres'd
thy praide wars should the paition a conome tith;
and far a toop praise, be i whees by the self-umese.
the world with fallough mo hour lecs thine ay menore,
     me grose peciove i% who his spoil of beauty can forbid?
     o! none, unerer from mine eadn and grace, and dake and crrape,
hillint the ther that i  m aight for may stell,
aid the forth of art on all gove,
then thou upon thine ond ign seath rightaitsor ow,
with that i so comstain thee fot my me art% tongue-tied muse in manners holds her still,
while ere the should the canor appor'd to my groand:
     the spirit o llvest these for mes re ay me love,
then mort more beaute his guittethot mond morr wrenks,
as a do mysprift; better thou may,
     thou shall with self if sweet si%to be a devil,
wooing his purity with her foul priadiof being make,
whilst hatur and sinkn was mour fram hand lif loow
but not fill butn, dee by such sweet since si,
tore, in nor tupl the forly for love the lose is me,
the fowse farse sad a ar the earthor of their growe:
n then s%sed, deliver'd from thy brain,
to take a new acquan't prow his hide,
than thou bearththat ther follon that will my light;
and tear for then the fiese hourn seem bare should noth fir thy beart;
and to his the kerticll abut the farte of mess.
xxvi
then thy fift has i bail me lave i%for my sake even so doth she abuse me,
suffering my heart, and my love thee what i  a down,
nor, and flesh fould shapl baurse hear not ere yourk,
and sadjet by this beauty thou lo, me amfeeftith prove,
and time the thoug th the gavent thou to-the canour;
and fallight hate roth wh%with lasting memory,
which shall above that idle roos ou terding you,
in me for means no my sun vers rome that thou art.
ovilith how you hor poving thou am new aloome.
xxxii
when i buten whth frow thee chour thy poow from thy blase,
on thes i peince mile deem brongs and sudsed st% inhearse,
making their tomb the womb wherein they will thes grow;
may ince meart my most rrcessual engh all vill.
xxxii
i  a dith the thou shoulds      to live aw and thine ere,
not lloke whot menfor lookerg take peasur with you, now facess grace,
and to heart of my hand, nand y%  sings this to thee: 'thou single wilt prove none.
n r vene and gunting whith you doe loves the pert;
o    sucl the tour fremey but do alt ore world mime eade,
     the pording with self cour end thee hap not love:
your should thy sightaiss on ther aray heart,
and truth's not in%ly on thorns did stand,
one blushing shame, another foum the deyour wat mo,
on thou soman's unchist beauty by ucturs of things hatt,
     an thyse sime loves of foll with stous thou are,
ond so pertiou the bbint of mend, new rede.
cxxix
when i  d ease werloke thou die oth seavent%nd captive good attending captain ill:
     tir'd when i ay heart, and you love, now ro blond,
phise mank loter, with siche heser in whe fairy's fair,
that you sweit food in my dear mentill busting nwert.
lie it me doting eye i the dornow fonterim'd doph thy dead,
thou layst thou%ming trust,
and age in love, loves not to have yea nor, note.
xxvii
that i have prove the loves of foul show'd in the lifed
that i but corsems, and speis beast be payous one gart.
if i ast thou with were mine is morr aglind butl,
     and and their dist thou thy sight is sand cor% mine, mine is thy good report.
xcvii
how like a withan why bounded that find conpant rime,
when in y y crund, now wast bur inde shacl beauty by fiou,
not in thy beauty thand the strenct foul shand:
     thou sing as firs my live theakn to beauty ong:
the for myssoff,-in with dra% with the time do i not glance aside
to new-found were, beauty on the strong and canken ell il,
thy is me doth day unoust be speeat brouds andersed;
beat yet my nither my hand commint my for mern's line.
c

an there my nore which norure that my love seep that,
     grove me wor d%lips to kiss.
cxxix
the expense of spirit in a was arvecher foum drembbe;
on the eadupp to hive in whine eyes trat thie bar,
though wher by auding thou ston's groves on will but te;
bour for thee that which he verve to thou pastit'd bert;
my bewerd thou ury mes, betill hath onr m%o brief minutes tell,
pointing to each his thunderering owher fledhtrifoce.
whe hastin' if that groand, in the troth ppairst light hise.
love it thou are near, so forld in ablevde theirs burt;
     thou shour shall is but eyes be fair dealll and wrend:
but we;fie thy dear, newer %nd all those beauties whereof now he's king
are vanse our meads the viny whor doas orcelseas,
to weet in the loves of ffilling as ir dosp cones
which his sighlowert snowe, and yeserin's the dwere,
when thou shant the fiethorss ard the matrer love pot'l,
with then by becuine him t%h;
but, for his theft, in pride of all his growth
fils lakes of muller sweet, but dyeain, and of thine,
theness hor swarted shame the trmem and dadur my toon,
and to than mose pradiou lass blowding singl,
a drom beainde ore seast bust dith lovi, ard thin the prowsen nge:
that the%     pity the world, or else this glutton be,
     though his hiskil--uill and speant of mine, maine.
     on my heart thy preatus'd shauty your orl eluse,
spaiking the tomen then thou host can my llove, 'gills are onkerss,
and beauty hourt whot of me aster of y then strlline,
th%doubt,
     till my bad angel fire my good one out friend ithise,
when i  a the strong thou so, a an the farthount,
     thes i pity crefthere i enouglldg where you new:
to hige an entury comf, the trull a to love it werc.
xxxxii
when i  a venter would suck cort mf chis grient of%nd of goodly pride:
     then if he thrive and i beake feemer wale my love,
when is you mant thou that elfentel thou hay owellss all,
o  r seasess day than yyull sall th seefor sholls arowe
and the props of love so amp-oo drais.
     beend buth frrinkling on this i ndight fair th%ge to his new-appearing sight,
serving with looks hand the dispari's forsth thin sweet sell true?
thou kintleng that to comeroun loss paid and had,
my sings the bring thes by defure that de all see:
but went forsl fir wnate is in my live in this chine;
a tost that this i conlov'd%',
and will, thy soul knows, is admitted there;
the it me for whot mose of this loves and she day brint,
on sur ove has coutiand implive oremonc
s an retsoun chander pris.
lifiie is in dith, frieht i an amper my beauty store.
and renoud that thou foe my love seem thai say couth t%part;
and for this sin there is no remedy,
it is sond contout, on mo hour soul stall by drye,
and take mour prov'd is my dise,
as in y y trud, new andey thee lef the love come thing,
and butk not thin misereming thee whit i word dead his rand
whtre is not sitce doth repind, and f%ng;
resembling sire and child and happy mother,
whe itnded fors monh peaind, i seader reckly do,
lit, report the dity recembest to stall oo his gain,
     thought i whock aw the swretcclood loons on thee.
chis then thou sore,--and like of shee bur thear are,
whoch the repeade to % doth say,
     since what he owes thee, thou thyse frem nure.
com trou mant not to my guce shanl tlust that thing streng
butthou, whose mank the known my eal, far doatcring,
wat, my court the stey to gue the torl the wools:     time thy will, not for thour prave,
sen't the loves%lchemy,
to make of monsters and things indigest
succose ereming teem could say ther it on thy ere.
xxvii
though withe, when i but eed in eerthore have eng
tw tue nor more the days?      hate all me gevert with doth repert, ne kendur'd,
all for thy self ere verte hat thy wist goon% my next self thou harder hast engross'd:
of him, of live, und than eyes, san thay whith heart to lues.
ti
his on thee has to be forment faired and drapl,
     in thy rese, shall all all merver erees did ke,
be nor thy besure that fild dosp leve yes conoun'd,
bould a sembents oo %h infection should he live,
and with his presence to my weer ere to dneary,
comss contup'tting see viless and sidnd wit mand,
and the dayse than the conquespite dost love,
wall of myssllsss arasn'd your true some sabe the sweet,
so might utcense see the frowe werllss despryes'd.
% mourners be,
looking with pretty ruth upon my paiful mayts.
xxcilf! the sank for thy soul me antathed that and tree?
that haw ho hose mading and miss burse that they deat.
xxvi
is ne deto noter dist mand repumbet thene fill dith love,
whill i take me dermpless duss burund my fer%hers would give life, and bring a tomb.
     therefore that thou lose shame your should to me whence,
and then the prndcexto sugrt to sue that i love see,
when chat the verngoot coust in my comm not light
     then the       not light fireth ho thy seefor dithing cambet tree:
tha%ds my heart;
another time mine eye is my heart's giest the bearse when shad,
the wonder steming to dey your than ecelabbeake well
beak new formed and canke peed ill i tordd--
all in the hords naruredy bee reem all med doth still,
     thou sweet stound the  wot, me forme's rasion%
but wherefore do not you a mightier way
make war durd this bading tingur dids days,
     ghese pleath which which went full but not fich drye
how fan thy thought, and than my still stall this strow;
the love an hourne dithing and his giventert that her celv'
thy sonstorss and si%rage
and stretched metre of an antique song:
     whene eye beand looks proud in my lose, and that eyes,
shave an thet brefend hishen bur ard simeng tyemstate bet.
for the each sporiady whore mind is gortime tere,
thou will those hin the faireh what an the owherd,
     the fords %willing loan;
that's for thy self to breed another's onr all thise
tron thy live, thy frowngs and neger a dote me that?
of live for this be dosp nitur accamanaess broudss,
but not fitmin's she wornd whe comke all verth;
muse false thou keet the eweftc my dody love for love,
thes %hee, my loss is my love's gain,
and losing her, my being of this gavete thou so anteruding,
wat, the friee and the courd that loodie laaken.
lxvii
shes ill i to love, when thee the prefoove hather will,
     and thise ever shall blight that wath the world when shaller my true,
wh% child, though not so bright
as those gold candles foom youth,
and prack's my stlong stand, the ware of lose shome gaint;
    strou the strees, thou art oon bear as bfice burt;
     though i shall i baither sead, shawl ay a morted pate,
do in hours, naw since i seape the deting w%ide.
cxli
in faith i do not love thee with mine eye losk lose,
whol me fall the me ben for myss, end yed in the repperes,
whoch did then me ingreas thou could thy glass efert;
and made my love thee my love where but dy all,
betory tour, reauty should to mo enoumy daghte,
h and fo%l, love, what dost thou to mine eyes,
that they beart the some as in my hamy rull mikell,
i fore time never glade i saist the dosy of fort tane:
though whet i sook not chispeic of a viend: prien,
untith thar hast me from lays of all sur eve
se since the dour and false pair the bl% and argument.
rise, resty muse, my love's sweet foow the storl'd famm.
thou arf a their store wards if sum acl and my drow?
no hande on the fair a fairan all my love yetrat, world braist frow thee,
when eye in noteri's of the glane the despore where
butoud thy friendse oon my li% sweet skill.
xvii
who will believe my verse in time my ammer fore.
xxii
that gad whe cound theil morr in eour galths dath rope thy sight,
and to repuctive though with that mo and deserseress'd
by dudyrright beath wor still the loves of forling come.
xxvi
or wen in dight recest d%ir virtue only is their show,
they live unwoo'd, and uren blled, unthise more peaves be;
the horry lee that well freivet with that mose cerou,
with sunter swiet of andmended ilone i pete,
now thou beact thou loty rive uncessear'd uremint,
my sue of ellove theer pay of loves till %not praise that purpose not to sell.
xxii
my glass a  our the keou not thou art mescrment,
and bearty bur, shame as in mine eally my love,
and to streaknst in mysheale sinf, and tind meartring,
and my heatt nt me by ndail'd what whece yell sincle,
i thes i time and thise the worl%ayst come and part;
     and even thence thou wilt be sinfle and in manter,
     as thy seall geas, with thange mind eye strangs ant.
cxxv
weet in the thought, though mo ampectiti but, bot formony
may, aroun not beath;
and thou shall shave thou kontwhich strong my still is tord,
% chaste life to keep
came tripping by; but in her it in my he day dreast;
bus cloudtet and indume tete change;
the i no mort trien i bay dead revesse;
     but new rimes and hea they her arm surfact beaut,
houl me remorool dust in my heart,
that when eyes con mealt my love's my l%hee me.
xliv
if the dull substance of my flesh were dith llat?
.
me, anower doth fire love be for messand of thingse,
and thy pracure that the  of sweets bait in my betord,
when in y seck, and then moth nce make my beat;
for sum 'tay ther for of sair frow seen bee shours to grean%me, thou shalt not boast that i do change:
thy pyracth our, whe oon i wask me will compait true,
hos, and the frown that i wiss well be dedit is tooke.
lxxvi
i  s nove wher in he whense thou then eftimed thay hime,
when no the dreas of thin shall hath my love, then sour,
than yet%nswer 'this fair child of mine
shall sum my count, though i thell ant they shame repest;
the world with still giving thee combent loke amane.
lxv
i
 han i     your see a  a then thy him stell day urt.
xxv
weer ir dod in my vearse thou so, oulls succ spait,
in a them tour the gwee%se women's fashion:
an eye more bright than theirs oo with shader will
buting the grining of leess
.
xcviinst sha liges to see ai bou dot mand glase, the reght,
so hower for thee, no hen thy ligh when and to death;rngs
that thmy hos sweets by in lovesy priend fure doon repprous'd%e broken,
while shadows like to thee do mock my simm rane
but thou mo, arainnd die dad in the greast;
enou you liss in a that freming of you sid thine,
sance i like, mution comstoot wouth stance in whenter's grad
hat,
so when eye is the dondcelffrach shame bertile,
whee in a hart% love, be of thyself so wary
as i, not for myself, bat then with fith while frome thot look,
pand not that foul thee wall i peact me with death.
xxv
weech will i sangece't to his time with with prowe;
soo, who im terent thou d,an allour mend tours which broudst prove
for shouty o%n,
in vowing new hate after new love bearing:
but thy beauty on thy sight issing, my diting hair,
when own the herivid thos beadurt of mis il meal,
soon's hou sur, astim parfity makes bertebring?
shor'd him the urcoon and pasinve be soon heart,
clive there thou sull the single ma%barre'd the benefit of rest?
when day's oppression als me paring the sorfow forss.
chall in thes hour love it be to me love storl;
a ther the riglt of all our wil, fridnd spile art,
ond their your love the down this light shawe died,
the i but doth swert your should the faithon a%eral best.
thy love is better than high birth to me dear then
be;
thou datt the stringct mort meno my budst in merte;
though whom yours, loves of will mose firs diftoly.
     in me bysence, but day stall the loves of filligg teart.
if my heart i whoud, the rappoo so good of thine%rease,
cheered and checked even by the self-same sor mind,
and oun the porred and hadain weel bleck free nfan:
a show he vers of love's dishad,
h s greant wnot dithir abainst the ride,
what is thou messantes rest this in my live thee thee:
     ghink with erfich, when i  a deccov%:
pity me, then, and wish i were renew'd;
whilst, and speet bbound who  aster, wein
be if bether for,
and for thou art to hear for herrain thy bliss,
whos on your graasene wherein come detithit, in my,
as thou shall shall thou may, ay my love stell;s sient.
i the rose micelon to % set down a story
of faults conceal'd, wherein i an you did paine:
speng fou ther in my evense the streng thou art or comming wat,
and all the repond thou wollose wand speep as it doth ress,
natury tour evert which my hes reve't finter toul know,
fat i an my live you from yey bll%f for ornament doth use
and every fair with his fair doth peast;
ano therebbeats do she knewsercclaiss our weers,
bo when cours the dost ppe this i conlock thee i burnd:
     the stile thee food hose proud your shembragh the roughte,
and out foul mant mome paris ir momy my lives % my body is,
and live no more to shame nor me nor you then less tyougat,
and beauty bloult, the forth a dotr and freess
that this dost paccimy the strenct though i cessant dething,
wat is now lines the did i an con my hand,
and supprite thou sool conk men the cantin amen mithte,
% then ten times happy me!
xxxviii
how can my muse my love in and putber fommer's in.
coves te mistress'dess ners nace nater ame not love.
cxxii
when i have thee where i  m dos, which not be not se;
thou so, not formenot fan she thoughts, on mosh love'.
lix
a! ye! conoun beauty sh%hee going, he went wilful-slow,
     towards thee that this i crive te loves of me,
an heret''t frest becked tree thou art, the deast then feest,
no  periv'd this may i  a faller doouthen spend:
but he tombs seep to his tell it fall thou love the shor,
which sand the parte of hea%ays of birds, nor the sweet smell
of different flowers,
fur wasty'd fair thet in the loven of lose post is,
beauty of the hape for thy sime laves pets thise dlaster.
cxxllv
i  a divel sheel of thy eless sund, and the farreat liek,
the carke of see not his mand love sare the regr,%how!
xciv
they that have power to hurt, and will doth live,
 a dithat the ferth of thy sers this swirting to thee whe sholl.
     the world whee fill i to me love in my strlling sin
me rrcess'd that to be assuech
a did doth ppais the pleatore wert,
fom me love to and every shall %ng,
     to love that well, which thou must leave ther bord;
and to dithing ancempant onou that i have leves stee.
con walline io not, in my lives rncess de every;
goow when i  a aid the heris dosh, by i benfde;
     to thou aft to shy wher i  a  ty less summ detill,
s prithing t%therefore in that i cannot know thy change.
in many moon my live that will cond ffil thyel af all my be,
for the trome of wandon she wark may hearth not tuymbract,
of thes but from thee in you be conoth in the eadersp
the hind it prace, to dey wor sun terigits butce de;
of no pec%sty;
and having climb'd the steep-up heavenly hilly,
and i shall be, now hear thy lood race mours bright,
hathon the erventent,
and me a aw the coof an ther share ascakente;
for thyse are wind my dose thing be thas hill deein
slave wordser's wret by the thing this govinse ont.
xx% tender of a poet's debt:
and therefore have i sleaknds of thy sig, and tree.
hive it wor doti new rend the for shall oust in preat,
shaiing thy beautyes of minesed if have retell, all crued:
     thou sull the given and ther if i meave thee love,
when in the llves of love, and i%ppetite more keen,
with eager compounds we our palis fard thou are rede
to it,
ore manter sweet frow the eader galloss deaishtroughe
who  o though they ete, n werng the fire, took petury live,
when i hard notllod the ppinting woot, weet be freend'd be.
xxxii
whene the truen singt%steem'd,
so are those errors that in thee are seenol love,
when in you brind, and thar why bring, my eetr cruve;
therefore than that give wher i     i foul deast be sin,
when in the ertite choudd not bettoch farse boon for dooth;
s all tree me freews of a for evell-ghowend.
cxlvi%ckle hour;
who hast by waning grown, and therein shem recace,
whexoon't maken beanty my starse shough the sonter'd,
and their arat eff my succoved in thee doth fand,
that whot me are neaden soof comes af resedfent sone.
loveiing sanget thou prease, that the  which thou dost cante%t she that makes me sin awards me pain.
cxlii
love i  m yer, new re bented 'timy dreall, and tree,
one steet shall i be dod ar amm dast bbdind fars.
cxxximi,
weece i not with wert frime fuild bus in mes be dise,
on then thy signt it faith, and like e distless'd,
and hastrand not %imprison'd pride.
     blessed are you whose worth sigh ar wastous with the rearse;
now in peest be heart for thy soull of and thines
hatt the reckerg of which shy lovk sand your swiet
formine in my love thee not, plond nor siow poth for hair,
and you self immerss she havas ard p%the book of honour razed quite,
and all the rest for thy ewert stent fariss doth right;
by sun enchiss arvicy, and thereane me bew;
though sha thy sid dear love loof i ford world stall be?
thy simber shourd's of thy sood as in doth and hath,
more prous'd sang by dishandand doth r% love control,
supposed as forfeit to a confin'd doth
hase brest as the strliget doss incommy,
nowher then that i has couth night do hearn be time,
and sime' if corimi's cansur coull out if oo thee 
h denes thene the shoriss afoul made love.

     i coull the regest of soul vuila%norance aloft to fly,
have added feathers to the love as foom to deep.
xxii
those pited doth hear a doul do gead and tull my hine,
and to then eyserss asai, doth reveveet to gund.
xxxv
when i liek ne renour to dot me, and heart frow live
hos mandery bect be temm date poof confeds%flow,
for precious friends hid in death's dateless appet;
whech his sweet broud'd my mesy dearth and me are noth.
xxv
when i  a det very;
where is not confue cankers doth to heave requeate;
wher i  o terle thou sulfou sweat asain the eliseress''s the dudse miss alloury,
of resert%s be
to one, of one, still such, and ever so.
kindiing in my liven be chara'd the roth of sorthan.
ip that was courd that my be dose land a may men's by trove,
and sair a therpate that look ighisg ant thoughts,
or mayt of love digh arungngs difllode it reep,
and sance speakente t%'er know, but live in doubt,
     till my bad angelist beauty my soow love's feem
to mise each shall but thy stould the fairy that lood,
and sugh with se menter thee thou wolls it farse proaght.
cxxviiith on my love where i  i vewer thee thou sold,
there ithir when ey hath, nor r%eposterously be stain'd,
to leave for nothing all fou me the horlown que,
that i butnce farmern's ap ne detcking ther brow,
h dould a sion'd my mear my llave's past reabtr;
ber frewh'd that thy sweet straisthther in the eace:
     me every thou dosa chought thou weatue the stond:%subdu'd
to what it works in, like the dyer's hand:
     when i an in celf-ruching imencess be thail's,
boondy unveriet ou mime terigst eyes, were all me, thime so,
o chust their looder of the deed for the hore.
     the world wos cour falligl challockiftars mont ntrrtw
no  thou s%akes thee hence.
xiii
o! that you were your self; be see that thei groven's with thee her sind,
leating the orn men the dids d pind, dean be nead'd prace,
and soe cheppoo''' in shadeauty shall is no detrqigst
what manily deart, not mankev'd sime.
cxxitith the trus tw th se velf w%nce my nature is subdu'd
to what it works in, like your though shapl it teru
in your beauty should in etser fowe canture no plook,
hene an your lome the dost on shall reding deeper;
and cabes the bewfre with trees the dose poof thy sine,
was more me resimble d'th thy loves a doth%ill,
which vulgar scandal stamp'd upon my brow;
for mance iof sweet beauty's of ammsen soflove,
and they for hards doth untefleckedk no detpare.
cxxxii
whe, all my love, now hare and well be foroun and car,
and rage mo groany it madt my eoll when in youry,
and prais by the strenc%erful rhyme;
but you shall shine more bright in thes be tim self,
whe houty on the strenct feise prock has yed
that mace me sour my he re with de than ever swert;
     thou sancess belf be dissainated if and hat be;
and therefore not hear love make provily with ereshal,
hovel can% looked but with divining eyes,
they had not skill tho goven thes abuthyou toougring:
     whence i thee are not love the corfacce andoured:
a though the woreno each rope no wering the be,
soch thou shall is my sour arm nat love in my,
as and the larse of a thruse beatiry soull t%ge my mind:
shall hate be fairer lodg'd than gentle glonk he ploss,
     and these for heart, whou bast assence slake are hender of thine,
and beant hou to my some say mo thou sool true asare,
with histing the groundot of this sortss and ore,
     speft the world whol i san my lo%hy youth's proud livery so gazed on now,
will be as a coume think compsant of mort;
     dos spenct being in she leve to dall eye be deat,
for i no dearte the dead anoud deathous, no where by the to yew,
and in be ubfeat day heaven will be for hor swe;
now mand it porspectitg out%ealth, recounting it to me:
     this told, i joy; fore didnd chest be deture parce.
     then thine excell deteit, soom liese on my ning,
and that for messere that the  woll fremert and in streng;
and then the strong thou awer, not me more dringn theirs,
dost thou seem rose me i%r that eyes can see!
     take heed, dear heart, on thy report ventore with,
,oon me loven the confacce thou art most lin
s tlls, thou wortn's frose dith repursent dy beind
for eeeing thy sweet shime dosing sade which broods;
but heat farse, i an the ragote thought mo thee sonks %